# **2008****年深圳中考英语试题**
## **I. ****选择填空****(15****分****) **
  从下面每小题的A、B、C、D四个选项中选出最佳选项, 在答题卡选择题答题区将相应的 字母编号涂黑。(共15小题, 每小题1分)
1. ---Are you good at playing _________ basketball or playing _________ piano?
  ---Both.
  A. a, a    B. the, the    C. the, /    D. /, the
2. ---This is my new e-dictionary.
  ---Wow! I like _____ very much. I’II ask my mum to buy_____.
   A. it, one for me    B. it, one to me    C. one, it for me  D. one, it to me
3. ---Can you _____ your camera to me, Mike?
  ---Sorry. I _____ it at home.
  A. borrow, left    B. borrow, forgot   C. 1end, forgot  D. 1end, left
4. ---Look! There ______ lots of traffic in this city.
  ---_______ we should be careful when we cross the streets.
  A. is, But    B. are, But    C. is, So   D. are, Or
5. ---Can I go fishing with you, Dad?
  ---No, you ______. You _______ stay at home and do your homework first.
  A. won’t, may    B. can’t, must    C. shouldn’t, ought  D. needn’t, should
6. ---______ will you travel to Shanghai?
  ---In a month.
A. How far  B. How often  C. How soon  D. How long
7. ---What did you see just now?
  ---I saw two ______ doctors _____ out of the house.
A. woman, come  B. woman, came  C. women, coming  D. women, to come
8. ---Sometimes children hardly understand their parents, ______?
  ---No, they_____. I think they should try to understand their parents.
A. don’t they, don’t  B. don’t they, do  C. do they, do  D. do they, don’t
9. ---The model plane is so cute. Whose is it?
  ---It’s_______. He made it________.
A. Jack’s, itself  B. Jack’s, himself  C. Jack, himself  D. Jack, itself
10. ---Do you still remember the snow storm last winter?
   ---Sure. _______ people _______ from going home during that time.
   A. One hundred, stopped    B. Ten hundreds of, were stopped
   C. Hundreds, stopped      D. Hundreds of, were stopped
11. ---The teacher looked at her students ______ when they were saved.
   ---We also felt ______ for them.
   A. happily, happy  B. happy, happily  C. happy, happy  D. happily, happily
12. ---_______ good news it is! The pandas are found alive after the earthquake.
   ---It’s so______.
A. What a, excited  B. What, exciting  C. How a, excited  D. How, exciting
13. ---Is Cindy at home?
   ---No, she ______ the library. She ______ there a moment ago.
    A. has gone to, went    B. has gone to, has been
C. has been to, went    D. has been to, has gone
14. ---______ plastic bags we use, ______it will be to the environment.
   ---I agree ______ you.
   A. The 1ess, the better, with   B. The fewer, the better, with
   C. The less, the worse, to     D. The fewer, the worse, to
15. Which of the following is true?
A. Could you tell me what is the matter with him?
B. Do you know where does Elizabeth live?
C. I’ve got no idea how to do with it.
D. There are many people read in the library.
## **II. ****完型填空****(10****分****)**
    阅读下面短文, 从短文后每小题所给的A、B、C、D四个选项中选出最佳选项, 在答题卡选择题答题区将相应的字母编号涂黑。(共10小题, 每小题1分)
  The organizing committee of the 2011 Universiade (2011大运会组委会) has  collected___16___slogans (口号) from the public (公众) in the past few months. Now the committee are busy___17___the slogans in order to choose one for the 2011 Universiade.
  “Start here” is one of the slogans. It ___18___ an amazing story of Shenzhen, a young and___19___city. China has a history of___20___5, 000 years while the city of Shenzhen has a very short history. People___21___Shenzhen a city with ___22___ history or culture. However,  ___23___that, the city is always open to all kinds of cultures. It welcomes people from different parts of China and from ___24___countries. They bring in different cultures. And Shenzhen is always ready to accept them. So in only thirty years it has grown into a big modern city from a small village. Yet, it is not the end. Every day is a new start to Shenzhen.
  “Start here” also leaves ___25___  for people to have their own understanding of the word “here”. “Start here” means a lot. We hope it can be chosen as the slogan for the 2011 Universiade.
16. A. much           B. many           C. a lot        D. a little
17. A. studying         B. writing         C. looking      D. making
18. A. says            B. talks            C. tells        D. speaks
19. A. alone           B. alive            C. lonely       D. 1ively
20. A. over than        B. much than        C. more than   D. less than
21. A. used to thinking   B. were used to think  C. use to think  D. used to think
22. A. no              B. not              C. any        D. many
23. A. because         B because of         C. though     D. even if
24. A. another          B others             C. the others  D. other
25. A. room            B. a room            C. sky       D. a sky
## **III****. ****阅读理解****(20****分****) **
  阅读下列短文, 从下面每小题的A、B、C、D四个选项中选择最佳选项, 在答题卡选择题
  答题区将相应的字母编号涂黑。(共20小题, 每小题1分)    ‘
                           **    A**
It was the day of the “free movie. The local newspaper advertised the good news, so there was a long line in front of the cinema before 7:30 p.m, the cinema’s opening time.
At 7:25pm, a small man pushed his way to the front of the line, but he was pushed back by people around. Three minutes later, the man tried again. People shouted at him. And once again they pushed him back to the end of the line. This time he got angry and shouted loudly, “That does it! If you don’t allow me to go to the front, I won’t open the cinema!’’
26. Why were there so many people in front of the cinema?
    A. Because there was a movie on.       B. Because there was a free movie.
    C. Because the cinema opened too late.   D. Because people liked to push the man for fun.
27. From the passage we know that the man was pushed to the end of the line _______.
   A. once    B. twice  C. three times  D. four times
28. The time to open the cinema was ______.
   A. 7:00 p.m    B. 7:2 p.m  C. 7:28 p.m  D.7:30p.m
29. Which of the following statements is true according to the passage?
   A. The man wanted to get into the cinema first.
   B. The man was probably a worker of the cinema.
   C. People were angry because the newspaper fooled them.
   D. The man wanted to drive all the people away from the cinema.
30. **“That does it!”** means“______”.
   A. That’s enough! I can’t bear it!      B. All right! You do it！
   C. Yes! That’s the right thing to do！   D. That’s true!
                                  B
It’s not true any more that only old women knit (编织). Knitting has now become a fashionable hobby among women in their 20s and 30s and even among teenagers. Young women can be seen knitting in coffee shops, hairdressers, bookstores, and at bus stops. Famous movie stars like Madonna, Julia Roberts and Cameron Diaza knit. They knit scarves, hats, socks, sweaters and even wedding dresses.
Knitting is called the “new yoga”. It is very relaxing and is the perfect hobby for people who live a busy, stressful(紧张的)life. It slows down their heart and lowers their blood pressure. Susan Blomster, a 24-year-old secretary from New York, says “when I come home from work, I am stressed almost every day. But after 30 to 45 minutes of knitting, I’m totally relaxed”. Maria Carter, a 31-year-old fashion designer from California always knits through her lunch break. “It helps me clear my head,” she says.
31. What has changed about knitting?
   A. More women than men are knitting.  B. More men than women are knitting.
   C. Old women have stopped knitting.   D. Young women have started knitting.
32. Why is knitting called the “new yoga”?
   A. Because mainly men do it.     B. Because it relaxes your body and mind.
   C. Because it comes from India.   D. Because it can shape your body.
33. When does Susan Blomster knit?
   A. While she is working.            B. On her way home from work.
   C. After she gets home from work.    D. Before she goes to work.
34. From the passage we know Maria Carter knits at lunchtime because______.
   A. it helps her work well in the afternoon   B. she loves knitting so much
   C. she has no time to do it later           D. she is bored
35. Which of the statements is true?
   A. Knitting cleans people’s hair, So it’s very helpful.
   B. Knitting is only popular with young women.
   C. People often knit 30 to 45 minutes after work.
   D. Susan Blomster is stressed almost every day when she gets home.
                         **         C **
Everybody hates rats. But rats may soon be man’s new good friends. What happens after an earthquake? We send in rescue dogs. Why? Because they can smell people. Dogs save lives. They help rescuers to find living people. But dogs are big and they can’t get into small spaces. So now a new research project is using a smaller animal to save lives: the rat.
  How does it work? First, the rat is trained to smell people. When this happens, the rat’s brain gives a signal. This is sent to a small radio on its back, and then the rescuers follow the radio signals. When the rat’s brain activity jumps, the rescuers know that someone is alive. The rat has smelled that person.
  Although there are already robots which can do this job, rats are better. “Robots’ noses don’t work well when there are other smells around. Rats are good at that. Rats can also see in the dark, they are cheaper and quicker to train than dogs, and unlike robots, they don’t need electricity!
The “rat project” is not finished. but a scientist says. “It would be great. A rat could get into any place we couldn’t get to, and a rat would get out if it wasn’t safe.” Perhaps for the first time in history, people will be happy to see a rat in a building (but only after an earthquake, of course).
36. Where do you think you can find this passage?
   A. In a magazine about toys.       B. In a history book.
   C. In a newspaper about science.    D. In an advertisement.
37. In the writer’s opinion, rats may become man’s new friend because ______.
   A. they can be food for people
B. they are lovely
   C. they can completely replace man’s rescue jobs
   D. they can tell the location of the living people who are trapped in the building
38. In what way do rats act as rescuers?
   A. By screaming.     B. By smelling.     C. By watching.  D. By feeling.
39. Which of the following is **NOT** true?
   A. Rats don’t need electricity.
   B. Rats are better than robots when smelling.
   C. Rats are as clever as radios.
D. Rats can see things in the dark when doing rescues.
40. Why does the “rat project” sound great according to the passage?
   A. Because rats can get into very small spaces.
   B. Because rats have better noses than dogs.
   C. Because rats don’t like robots.
   D. Because rats are brave.
41. Which is the best title of this passage?
   A. Ways of saving people      B. Rats
   C. Earthquake               D. Rats for rescue
                 **        ****          D     **
  The city will start a New plan charging (向……收费) companies according to how much industrial (工业的) waste they produce. The public have been invited to give their suggestions on the new plan.
  If transport(运输) companies without licenses deal with industrial waste, they will face a fine of
up to 20,000 yuan. If transport companies with licenses leak (泄露) waste during the transportation, they will be fined between 1,000 and 5,000 yuan.
  Individuals who mix industrial waste with daily rubbish will face a fine of 200 yuan. Companies that give away industrial waste on roads, bridges, river banks, and greenery belts will face fines from 3,000 to l0,000 yuan, according to the new plan.
The plan says the money collected from companies will be spent on research into recycling (回收利用)waste. It also encourages companies to use  new ways to turn waste into useful products.
The city will produce around 10 million tons of industrial waste every year during the 11th
five-years program period (2007-2012) and the waste will take up 67,000 hectares of land
42. How much money collected from companies will be spent on research into recycling waste?
   A. 20, 000 yuan.       B. From 3,000 to 10, 000 yuan.
   C. 39,200 yuan.       D. The passage doesn’t say.
43. What are companies encouraged to do?
A. To turn waste into useful things.
B. To leak waste when transporting waste.
C. To mix industrial waste with daily waste.
D. To be fined.
44. From the passage we can see _______.
   A. people like the new plan              B. the money will be given to poor areas
C. the new plan has been put into use      D. we are producing much waste
45. The passage is mainly about _______.
   A. the companies           B. the industrial waste
   C. the waste charge plan     D. the way of transporting waste
## **I****V****. ****解释句子****(10****分****) **
  根据自己的理解, 用已学过的英语解释下列句子。必须将答案写在答题卡非选择题答题区
  相应的序号内。(共5小题, 每小题2分)
46. What’s your age?
47. It is raining cats and dogs.
48. He is the cleverest in his class.
49. Are students keen on computer games?
50. It is two weeks since he left London.
## **V****. ****书面表达****(10****分****) **
    必须将答案写在答题卡背面非选择题答题区相应的序号内。(共1题)
51. 假如你是Carl, 是第一中学初三(3)班的学生, 即将结束初中阶段的学习生活。请你用英文给你的老师写一封信, 表示感谢和祝福。
要求：
1)可以列举事例；
    2)条理清楚, 意思连贯, 语句通顺, 标点正确；
    3)信中不得出现真实的校名和姓名；
4)60-80个单词。
## **参考答案**
选择填空 
1.D   2.A    3.D    4.C    5.B    6.C     7.C   
8.D   9.B    10.D    11.A    12.B    13.A     14.B  
15.A 
完型填空 
16.B   17.A    18.C   19.D    20.C    21.D    22.A 
23.B   24.D    25.A 
阅读理解 
26.B     27.B     28.D     29.B     30.A      31.D 
32.B     33.C     34.A     35.D     36.C      37.D 
38.B     39.C     40.A     41.D     42.D      43.A 
44.D     45.C 
非选择题 
46.How   old   are  you ? 
47.It  is  raining  heavily.   
48.He  is  cleverer  than  any   other   student  in  his   class. 
49.Are  students   interested   in  computer   games? 
50.He  left  London   two  weeks    ago  .
