# **2011****年深圳市中考英语试题（绝密）**
第一卷(70分)
听力测试(25分)
I．从下面每小题的A、B、C三个选项中，选出你在录音里听到的那个句子，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。(每小题念一遍，共10小题，每小题0．5分)
1.   A. Someone is waving to you.
2.   B. Someone is waiting for you.
3.   C. Someone is looking for you.
4.   A. Mr Smith is now living alone.
5.   B. Mrs Smith is now living quietly.
6.   C. Mr Smith is now living happily.
7.   A. He doesn't want to rent this car.
B. He doesn't want to mend this car.
C. He doesn't want to lend me his car.
4.   A. Benny is going to do some reading.
5.   B. Jenny is going to do some washing.
6.   C. Jenny is going to do some cleaning.
7.   A. Don't you believe that he can help me with it?
B. Don't you believe that he will tell me about it?
C. Don't you believe that he will listen to it?
6. A. That is the most exciting day I've ever had
B. That is the most interesting story I've ever read.
C. That is the most exciting face I've ever met
7. A. There'll be a meeting in our school next week
B. 'There'11 be a sports meet in our school next month.
C. There'll be a class meeting in our class next week.
8. A. The teacher asked David not to talk in class.
B. The teacher asked David to pay attention in class.
C. The teacher asked David to keep quiet in class.
9. A. We couldn't go shopping because it was raining hard.
B. We couldn't go swimming because it was raining heavily. .
C. We couldn't go skating because it was blowing hard
10. A. About 1500 young trees have been planted in our city since last week
B. About 1600 young trees have been planted in our city since last month.
C About 1800 young trees have been planted in our city since last month.
  Ⅱ．根据你在录音里听到的句子，从下面每小题的A、B、C三个选项中选择最佳答句，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。(每小题念两遍，共10小题，每小题1分)
11.       A. It's Saturday.     	B. It's June 22.     				C. It's a fine day.
12.       A. All right    		B. It's right.    					C That's all right
13.       A. No, I'm not     	B. Thank you.     				C. You are right
14.  A. Sure. Give you. 		B. Of course. Here is the key. 			C Never mind.
15. A. He's John. 			B. He's an American. 				C He's a doctor.
16. A. You're wrong. 		B. I've got a headache. 				C. I'm young.
17.  A. You too.    		B. OK.    						C Bye-bye.
18.  A. No, not at all		B. I'm sorry too. 					C. It doesn't matter.
19.       A. No, I won't    	B. Yes, I will.    				C. No, I will
20.  A. I came to China in 1992.
B. I like China very much.
C. I had a good time in China.
Ⅲ．下面各组对话后均有一个与对话内容有关的问题，从下面每小题的A、B、C三个选项中找出能回答这个问题的最佳答案，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。
21. Where was Tony yesterday?
A. At the library.    B. At home.    C In the park.
22. What does the man want to do?
A. To change his Walkman.
B. To buy a new Walkman. 		C. To borrow a Walkman.
23. Why can't Mary go to Happy Valley with Tom? Because<u>        </u> .
A. she is ill				B. she is busy					C. her mother is ill
24. What time is it now?
A. 8：00		B. 7<sub>：</sub>45		C8<sub>：</sub>15
25. What does the woman men?
A. She has bought a new car.
B. John never tells lies.
C. John is not honest
Ⅳ．听短文，从下面每小题的A、B、C三个选项中选择最佳答案，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。(念两遍，共5小题，每小题1分)
26. When did Steven's family move to the new house?
A. Many years ago. 		B. A short time ago. 			C Long long ago.
27. How old was Steven? He was<u>        </u>.
A. 10		B. 12			C 8
28.  How did he feel on his first day to the new school?
29.  A. Afraid.       		B. Glad. 				C. Worried.
30.  What did the teacher ask the students to do?
31.  A. To write about their family.
B. To write about their parents.
C. To write to their family.
30. Which of the following sentences is right?
A. Steven's family was quite poor.
B. Steven's family lived in a very small house.
C. Steven's mother didn't want others to know they were rich.
 笔试(45分)
V．选择填空
    从下面每小题的A、B、C、D四个选项中选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。(共15小题，每小题1分)
31.   You'd better use<u>      </u>computer.<u>      </u>is broken.
A. his,My    		B. his,Mine		C. he, My   		D. him, Mine
32.   Lucy is very excited because today is her<u>      </u>birthday.
A. nineth         	B. nine			C. the ninth     	D. ninth
33.   Of all the students, she looks <u>     </u> .
A. the happiest     	B. the most happiest
C happier            D. happy
34.   He had a<u>      </u> visit to Canada last month.
A. ten days                       B. ten-day
Q ten-days                       D. ten day
35. I lost my way<u>       </u> a rainy night and my mother was
quite worred<u>      </u>me.
A. on, with                       B. on,about
C at,with                        D. at,about
36.   He<u>      </u>leave <u>        </u> he finished reading the magazine.
A. doesn't,until               B doesn't,and
C. didn't,until                  D. didn't,or
37.   You<u>      </u>return the book now. You can keep it for another week.
A. needn't      		B. mustn't			C can't           	D. won't
38.   Alice stayed up late last night,<u>      </u>?
A. didn't her        	B. didn't Alice			C. did she       		D. didn't she
39.   It's nice<u>      </u>you <u>  </u>.<u>    </u>me with my maths.
A. for, to help       	B. for, helping			C of, to help        	D. of, helping
40.  We are glad that the Shenzhen Underground<u>      </u>very soon.
A. will complete               B. will be completed
C has completed               D. has been completed
41.  —I have<u>    </u>money with me. Would you mind lending me some?
—Of course not
A. a few   		B. a little   		C. few   		D. little
42.   I'm afraid it'll<u>      </u>you much time to work out the problem.
A. spend   		B. use   		C. need   		D. take
43.   Either Bob or Peter<u>      </u>watching the 17th World Cup now.
A. is       		B. are       		C. am       		D. be
44.  Could you tell me<u>    </u>next year?
A, where you held the English Summer Camp
B. where did you hold the English Summer Camp
C. where you will hold the English Summer Camp
D. where will you hold the English Summer Camp
45. Which of the following sentences is WRONG?
A. Although it was very late, Miss Liu didn’t stop working.
B. The plane has already taken off when we got to the airport.
C. We should not only help each other but also learn from each other.
D. Mum is sleeping now. Please tell them not to make so much noise.
Ⅵ．完形填空(10分)
    阅读下面短文，从短文后所给的A、B、C、D四个选项中选出能填入相应空白处的最佳选项，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑b(共10小题，每小题1分)
It's easier to go downhill than to climb uphill, so it's easier to fall into bad habits than into good <u>46 </u> . Bad habits do not come<u> </u><u>47  </u>. They come little by little, so you don't know their<u> </u><u>48 </u> Schoolboys first pick up little bad habits at <u>49 </u> and on the streets. When they cannot do their homework, they copy from their <u>50 . </u>If they see bigger boys smoking, they <u>  </u><u>51</u><u>  </u> want to learn to smoke. If they see their friends gambling(赌博) , they want to gamble. When they get <u>52 </u> , the habits become stronger and stronger. Then they can no longer give them up. From copying, they learn to <u>53  </u> from gambling, they learn to cheat (欺骗).<u>54 </u> no one believes in them. How <u>55  </u>it is that we stop the bad habits at the beginning !
46.  A. one		B ones         	C. other         		D. others
47.  A. slowly		B. usually    	C. exactly      		D. suddenly
48.  A. danger		B. idea			C. plan				D. hope
49.  A. work		B. school      	C. home        		D. night
50.  A. parents		B. teachers   		C. classmates 			D. students
51.  A. still		B. too			C. older         		D. younger
52.  A. thinner		B. fatter       	C. yet				D. also
53.  A. read		B. give         	C. write         		D. steal
54.  A. At last		B. At first   		C. At least    		D. At most
55.  A. silly		B. important 		C. difficult    		D. easy
Ⅷ．阅读理解(共、20小题，每小题1分，共20分)
    1．判断短文后句子是否正确，正确的用A表示，错误的用B表示。并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。
Greenland is the largest island in the world. It is in the north of Europe(欧洲). Near Greenland is another island. It is small. Its nam is Iceland Do you think that Greenland is green and warm? Do you think that Iceland is white with ice? If you do, you are wrong. Not many people live on the big island of Greenland. There are more people in your hometown than in all of Greenland. That is because Greenland is not greea Greenland is white. Most of the Greenland is covered with lots of ice. The ice covering Greenland is higher than some of the world’s tall buildings. What about Iceland? Is it colder than Greenland? No, it is not Iceland has ice, but not so much ice as Greenland. Iceland has a lot of hot springs. They give out hot water and steam. So it is not as cold as Greenland. And there are a lot more people who live in Iceland.
56.  Greenland is green while Iceland is white.
57.  Iceland is in the south of Europe.
58.  Iceland has not any ice.
59.  Fewer people live in Greenland than in Iceland.
60.  Greenland is larger than any other island in the world.
    2：阅读下列短文，从下面每小题的A、B、C、D四个选项中选择最佳选项，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。
<div align="center">

A

</div>
One evening two young men were walking in the street together. They tried to find a chance to steal something. The clock struck twelve. Most of the people went to bed. Quickly they came to a house and it seemed that everyone in the house had fallen asleep. Standing at the front gate, one said in English to the other in a low voice, "You wait here. I'll go around to the hack door and then get into the house. "Suddenly out of the house ran a dog, barking at them. The two men were very frightened and ran away as fast as they could. Finally, they stopped at a lonely place. The man said breathlessly, "It's too bad. I hadn't expected(期望)that the dog could understand English. "
61. Why did the two men walk in the street one evening?Because.<u>        </u>
A. they couldn’t fall asleep
B. they wanted to steal something
C. they would like to take a walk
D. they went to visit their friends
62. "One said in English to the other in a low voice. "From the above sentence we know<u>        </u>
A. he didn't know English
B. he liked speaking English quietly
C. he couldn't speak aloud
D. he was afraid of waking up others
63. The dog ran out of the house and barked at them only because.<u>        </u>
A. it understood English 		B. it knew them
C it found someone outside 		D. Both B and C
64. At last the two young men<u>        </u>.
A. stole nothing
B. stole something expensive
C. were bitten by the dog
D. were caught by the police
65. What did the owners do while the dog was barking?
A. They stopped it.
B. They got up qucikly
C. They shouted for help.
D. The story didn't tell us.
<div align="center">

B

</div>
Happy Children's Day!
Come and see the Indian elephants and the tigers from America. The bears are waiting to meet you, and the mon keys from Thailand are waiting to throw things at you. The lovely dogs from Australia are waiting to laugh at you, and the giraffes from Zambia are waiting to look down on you.
Tickets；Time：
Adults<sub>：</sub>￥60June 1—June 2
Children<sub>：</sub> free9：00a. m. — 7：00 p. m.
Keep the park clean! Do not touch, give food or go near the animals.
The safari park
66. How many kinds . of animals are talked about in the poster(海报)?
A. 4				B. 5			C6			D. 7
67. Mr and Mrs Brown will take their twins aged 6 to the park. How much will the tickets be together?
A. ￥60         B. ￥120       C. ￥180       D. ￥240
68. Visitors can do the following things EXCEPT <u>        .</u>
A. giving some food to the tigers
B. watching the bears playing games
C laughing at the dogs from Australia
D. taking some pictures
69. From the passage we can guess the animal" giraffe"must be<u>        </u>.
A. long     B. fat     C tall     D. strong
70. The poster may be made just<u>        </u>.
A. on new year Day		B. on Christmas Day
C After Children's Day		D. before Children's Day
<div align="center">

C

</div>
BEIJING(Xinhua) —Chinese have started to enjoy cars at low prices after the country became a member of the World Trade Qrganization(WTO). At the same time, competition between people has become stronger. According to the China's Ministry of Personne(人事部), about 170 million people will lose their jobs after the country has joined the WTO.
However, many Chinese people living in other countries have come back home to face the challenges (挑战). So far, about 130 thousand people have returned. These days, people, especially youths, have got to know the challenges of entry to the WTO. Books on the WTO have been <u>hot selling. </u>Some people are learning more about the WTO by going to night schools.
71. This passage is probably<u> </u>.
A. a story	B. a note		C. a letter	D, a news report
72. According to the passage, how many people will lose their jobs after China has entered the WTO?  About
A. 170, 000	B. 170, 000, 000	C. 130, 000	D. 300, 000, 000
73. Who cares more about the challenges of entry to the WTO?
A. Old people. 		B. Childrea		C. Young people		D. People from other countries.
74. In this passage, "hot selling"means.
A. the books sell well
B. the books sell at high prices
C. people buy the books on hot weather
D. people buy the books because they are new
75. , What is the main(主要的)idea of this passage?
A. China has entered the WTO.
B. China meets the WTO challenges.
C. Many Chinese people have returned from foreign countries.
D. Some Chinese people are learning about the WTO by going to night schools.
    第二卷(30分)
Ⅷ．按要求改句子。
    每空只填一词，将答案写在答题卷上。(共5小题，每小题2分)
76. She has dinner with her grandparents once a week (改成一般疑问句)
<u>        </u>she<u>        </u>dinner with her grandparents once a week?
77. The exhibition of Children's art began a few days ago. (同义句转换)
The exhibition of Children's art has <u>        </u> <u>        </u> for a few days.
78. We are going to study in new school <u>in two months</u>. (对画线部分提问)
<u>        </u>are you going to study in new school?
79.	English is very useful. (改成感叹句)
	<u>        </u>  <u>        </u>useful subject English is?
80.	Be brave, or you'll lose your chance. (同义句转换)
<u>        </u>you <u>        </u> brave, you'll lose your chance.
Here is an interview between a newspaper reporter(记者)and a high school student
(R— reporter   S— student)
R：Hi! Nice to meet you!
S：Nice to meet you, too!
R：You know many high school students in Shenzhen have <u>81</u> to foreign countries to study these years. What do you think of that?
S<sub>：</sub> Well, I am not  <u> </u><u>82</u>  whether it is good or bad. But I will be happy if my parents can afford to      <u>83</u> for me to study in a foreign country in the future.
R<sub>：</sub>Why?
S<sub>：</sub> Because studying in a foreign country can improve my English. Besides, I can make a lot of foreign     <u>84</u> and learn a lot about different cultures from them.
R： Some teachers think students need to stay   <u>85 </u> their parents when good habits and behavior are being formed (形成) They should go to foreign countries for further study when they are old    <u> </u><u>86 </u>   to look after themselves.
Do you<u> </u><u>87  </u> with them?
S：Mum…. Maybe that is a good suggestion. My parents have the  <u>88</u>  idea They think  <u>89</u>    cares about us much when we stay in foreign countries alone, so there is a chance that we will learn something bad.
R：OK<u> 90 </u>   for your time.
S：You are welcome.
X．书面表达(10分)
91．假设你是Tom，请你根据下列表格内容写一篇英语小短文，向你的新老师和新同学作自我介绍。将答案写在答题卷上。(用词必须限制在60～80之间)
| Name | Tom | Age | 15 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Father | manager | Mother | English teacher |
| School of Graduation | No. 3 Middle School | No. 3 Middle School | No. 3 Middle School |
| Specialties(特长  ) | computer, English | computer, English | computer, English |
| Hobbies | sports, collecting stamps, music | sports, collecting stamps, music | sports, collecting stamps, music |

## 2011深圳市中考英语试卷答案
V.  37. B   32. D   33. A   34. B   35. B   36. C    37. A 38. D   39. C   40. B    41. D   42. D   43. A    44. C 45. B
VI.  46. B   47. D   48. A    49. B   50. C    51. D    52. C 53. D   54. A   55. B
VII.56. B   57. B   58. B    59. A    60. A    61. B    62. D 63. C   64. A   65. D   66. C    67. B   68. A    69. C 70. D    71. D   72. B   73. C   74. A   75. A VIII. 76. Does have    77. been on    78. How soon    79. What
a    80. Unless are
IX. 87. been    82. sure    83. pay    84. friends    85. with 86. enough      87. agree      88. same      89. nobody       90. Thank
X.
My name is Tom. I'm a boy of 15. My father is a manager. My mother works as an English teacher. I graduated from No. 3 Middle school Computer and English are my favorites, and I'm good at them. In my spare time, I like sports, collecting stamps and music. That is all. Thank you.
