## **绝密★★使用前**
## **2013****年深圳市初中毕业生学业考试**
<div align="center">

第一卷 (选择题，共65分)

</div>
I.从下面每小题A、B、C、D四个选项中选出可以替换划线部分的最佳答案，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共5分，每小题1分）
1. Ted is a <u>smart</u> boy. He always does very well in the exams.
A. clever             B. brave             C. polite     D. friendly
2. Mary <u>refused</u> Tom’s invitation to his birthday party. It made him unhappy.
A. said thank to     B. said no to      C. said hello to     D. said yes to
3. If you want to <u>lose weight,</u> you’d better not to eat too much meat.
A. become fatter   B. become taller   C. become thinner     D. become prettier
4.-Where was water from <u>in the first place</u>?
-It came from the sea.
A. in the end     B. in the beginning      C. in the middle     D. in its place
5. John F. Dancer waited and waited. At last, a fireman <u>showed up.</u>
A. appeared     B. lined up      C. stayed up     D. disappeared
II. 从下面每小题的A、B、C、D四个选项中选出一个可以填入空白处的最佳答案，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共15分，每小题1分）
6. ---Is your mother gong to cook_______ supper for you today?
---Yes. We are going to have_______ big dinner.
A. a; /        B. /; the       C. the; /      D. /; a
7. ---Food safety is a serious problem in China. If we don’t pay attention to it; the situation will be_______ worse.
---Fortunately, our government is working hard to_______ it.
A. very; accept     B. even; accept     C. even; improve   D. very; improve
8. ---_______April 20 this year, a terrible earthquake hit Ya’an, Sichuan Province.
---We all sorry for that. It is reported that_______ houses were destroyed.
A. On; thousands of     B. On; thousand of
C. In, thousands of     D. In; thousand of
9. ---_______see the film about Lost in Thailand with me?
---Great idea! It’s said to be_______ film of the year.
A. What about; the funniest                        B. Why not; the funniest
C. Why don’t you; funnier                         D. Would you; funnier
10. ---I think the science problem is very difficult. Can you_______?
---No. It’s too hard. I’m afraid _______ students are able to do it.
A. work it out; a few        B. work out it; few
C. work it out; few          D. work out it; a few
11. ---There is nothing wrong with the television, _______ there?
---Yes. It must _______as soon as possible.
A. is; repair       B. is; be repaired      C. isn’t; repair    D. isn’t; be repaired
12. ---My son wants to go swimming very much_______ it’s very hot.
---It’s Ok. But_______ allow him to do that alone!
A. so; not       B. so; don’       C. because; not       D. because; don’t
13. ---There are_______ many clubs in our school that I can’t decide which one to attend.
---I_______ a member of the dancing club for over a year. Would you like to join us?
A. such; have been  B. so; have been  C. such; have become  D. so; have become
14. ---It’s bad to expect things for nothing. Therefore, my parents_______ give me much pocket money.
---But my parents always let me_______ some pocket money by helping with the housework.
A. often; earn     B. never; to earn     C. always; to earn      D. seldom; earn
15. ---How soon do you think China’s dream will_______.
---It may take time. But with everyone’s_______, our country will be more powerful.
A. come true; hard work                    B. come truly; hard work
C. come true; hard works                    D. come truly; hard works
16. ---Many people in the world don’t have enough to eat. _______bad it is to waste food!
---Yes. We should not order too much_______ we can’t eat up the food.
A. How; if          B. What; until          C. What; if          D. How; until
17. ---Bob! Would you please ask all your classmates_______ before Miss Li_______ back?
---OK. I’ll take them right away.
A. not to leave; will come        B. not to leave; comes
C. don’t leave; comes           D. don’t leave; will come
18. ---Hello! May I speak to Mary? I have _______ to tell her.
---Please_______. I’ll go and get her.
A. something important; go on          B. important something; hold on
C. something important; hold on         D. important something; go on
19. ---Have you ever watched the programme_______ is called‘I’m a singer’?
---Of course! It’s _______ popular in China now. Even my grandma likes it.
A. that; real         B. who; really       C. which; really       D. what; real
20. ---Miss Li, can you tell me_______?
---	Oh, it means a healthy, encouraging and hopeful power.
A. what does‘positive energy’mean          B. what‘positive energy’means
C. if it means‘positive energy’              D. that it means‘positive energy’
III. 完形填空。阅读下面短文，从A、B、C、D 四个选项中选出一个能正确填人相应空格内的最佳答案，并把答题卡上对应题目的答案标号涂黑。（每题1分，共10分）
  Joyce took part in a TV quiz show last Saturday. She was calm and relaxed. __21__ she  got all the answers right. Soon she was __22__ the other contestants. At last, she won the biggest prize-a chance to experience an educational visit to __23__ for three months. Joyce is very excited about the visit and she can’t wait to get ready for __24__ .She wants to take some photos of China with her to show people Chinese culture. Growing up in Fujian, Joyce enjoys __25__ , so she decides to take different types of tea such as black tea, green tea and Oolong tea（乌龙茶）.
  Joyce is going to say with a host family in New York for the__26__ twp months. During the stay, she will go to school there and live just like a member of the host family. __27__, she will go on sightseeing tours for the third month. She is a little__28__ about communicating with her hosts, but her parents__29__ encouraging her to be confident. This makes her feel much __30__.
Now she is looking forward to the visit.
21. A. yet          B. or          C. but          D. and
22. A. behind       B. or          C. ahead of      D. beneath
23. A. China        B. American    C. Japan        D. France
24. A. her          B. them        C. it           D. these
25. A. tea          B. coffee       C. milk         D. juice
26. A. first         B. second       C. third        D. last
27. A. before that    B. After that     C. Next Saturday D. Next month
28. A. strict         B. happy       C. sorry        D. nervous
29. A. stop         B. keep         C. hate         D. regret
30. A. better       B. weaker          C. angrier      D. sadder
IV. 阅读理解：（35分）
i. 根据短文内容，从下面每小题的A、B、C、D四个选项中选出最佳答案，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共25分，每小题1分）
<div align="center">

A.

</div>
  One day at a school, an old teacher was trying to explain the word‘miracle(奇迹)’in class.
‘Boys and girls,’said the teacher, ‘imagine I stood on the roof of a ten-floor building, lost my balance and fell off. Then suddenly, in the air, a wind blew me up and brought me safely to the ground. Now what word would you use to describe this?’
  The students thought for a long time. Then a boy raised his hand and said, ‘Luck?’
‘True, true,’answered the teacher，‘…but that’s not the word I wanted. I’ll regret to story. I am on top of the ten-floor building again, and I fall. A mind catches me in the air and places me safely on the ground. Think now…What word would you use to describe it?’
 ‘Accident!’cried out a girl.
 ‘No, no’he answered, ‘True, true, Listen for the third time. I’m on that same building, I fall and am safety by a wind. What word could describe it?’
  The boys and girls shouted together, ‘Practice!’
31. What could this story most probably happen?
A. During a holiday    B. At lunch time   C. On a school day   D. On a weekend
32. How many times did the teacher try to explain the word?
A. Once          B. Twice          C. Three times          D. Four times
33. The students shouted ‘Practice!’because they_______.
A. the old teacher was practising falling off the building
B. the old teacher told them to do more sports.
C. the old teacher wanted them to practise with    D. the old teacher didn’t mean anything at all
34. Which of the following is TRUE about the story?
A. The teacher told a true story in class       B. The students understand
35. We can infer(推断)from the passage that_______.
A. one of the students had an accident in class
B. the students were not listening to the teacher carefully
C. the teacher would explain it again in another way
D. the teacher was very happy with the students’ answers
<div align="center">

B.

</div>
  The second season of the popular singing contest ‘The Voice of China’was launched(启动)Wednesday in Beijing.
  Hosted by Zhejiang TV, the show is based on‘The Voice of Holland’. The first season invited four famous singers as coaches（导师）,Yang Kun, Na Ying, Liu Huan and Harlem Yu. The winner was Liang Bo, a 21-year-old man from Jilin.
  The choice of the coaches for the second season has not been decided yet, according to Jin Lei, the show’s director. He said they planned to invite pop singers Faye Wong, Jacky Cheung, Andy Lao and Liu Huan, to be this year’s coaches, but it hasn’t been decided yet. And he said they were looking for contestants from around the world and they planned to choose 300 for the show.
  In the first season, the four coaches chose teams of the contestants through a listening process with their backs to the contestants. If two or more judges wanted the same singer, the singer had the final choice of his or her coach. Finally, the contestants competed in later battles.
  For the second season, there will be changes in the process. One change is that may still have the chances to choose their favorite contestants in the later battles.
36. How many coaches were there in the first season?
A. Five          B. Four          C. Three          D. Two
37. Who was the winner of the first season?
A. Liu Huan          B. Jacky Cheung          C. Liang Bo          D. Faye Wong
38. According to the passage, who will probably be one of the coaches again in the second season?
A. Liu Huan            B. Na Ying      C. Yang Kun        D. Harlem Yu
39. The last paragraph talks about_______.
A. the plan for choosing coaches.        B. the plan for choosing contestants
C. the changes in the process of the second season
D. how to find contestants from around the world
40. According to the passage, which of the following statements is TRUE?
A. ‘The Voice of China’is based on another similar programme.
B. There will be 3000 contestants for the show in the second season.
C. The coaches of the second season have already been decided.
D. The process will be the same in the second season.
<div align="center">

C.

</div>
Chinese people often think of a rainy spring as a rather romantic time to be more <u>picturesque</u> when it rains. If you are making a plan for your spring trip, Shaoxing is the place to go.
Shaoxing lies in the south of the Yangtze River Delta(长江三角洲) in Zhejiang Province. You can take a fight from Shenzhen to Hangzhou and then a bus to Shaoxing. You can also take a direct(直达的) train to Shaoxing from Shenzhen Railway Station.
Shaoxing is one of the most famous historical cities in China. It is knows for its rich culture, and as a city of bridges, tea and scholars(学者). A number of great scholars either were born here or spent an important part of their life in the city, including the great writer Lu Xun.
With a history of more than 1000 years, the area has many attractions, like the houses of famous historical people. In addition, the natural landscape alone is a good reason for a visit. During the rainy months of spring, visitors often take Wupeng Boats to enjoy its natural beauty.
Silk products in Shaoxing are of high quality and are very popular with tourists. Shaoxing is famous for its wine, too. If you go to Shaoxing, you will find it has something for everyone.
41. The underline word‘picturesque’in the first paragraph means_______.
A. beautiful              B. boring          C. crowded          D. awful
42. Why is Shaoxing is known as a city of scholars?
A. Because Shaoxing has a history of more than 1000 years
B. Because the great writer Lu Xun was born in Shaoxing
C. Because a number of scholars were born in Shaoxing or once lived there
D. Because there are many houses of historical people
43. Shaoxing is famous for the following EXCEPT_______.
A. tea          B. silk products          C. wine          D. airports
44. We can know from the passage that_______.
A. there is a flight from Shenzhen to Shaoxing
B. there are a lot of bridges in Shaoxing
C. Because a number of scholars were born in Shaoxing or once lived there
D. Because there are many houses of historical people
45. The passage suggests(表明)that_______
A. Shaoxing is well worth visiting
B. it is cheaper to travel to Shaoxing in spring
C. Shaoxing is in the west of the Yangtze River Delta
D. you can take a Wupeng Boat to Shaoxing from Guangzhou
<div align="center">

D.

</div>
  Friendship can help you stick to your aim and make you more successful, according to an article in Times.
  Carlin Flora, the writer, who has studied friendship for years, finds that if you rally want to change something in your life, you can develop friendship with people who have the same aims as you do.
  Friends can help make you own stronger. Following good examples can help you get rid of(摆脱)bad behaviors and form new, healthier <u>ones</u>. For example, after a busy and tiring day, you probably want to go home and watch TV. However, your friend knocks on your door and asks you to go jogging with him. After jogging, you talk over coffee together. This is much better than just sitting in the room watching TV.
  Flora also points out that it’s best to stop bad habits by turning attention to different, good ones. Instead of staying at home alone and spending hours in front of your computer, building up friendship with those who have the values and habits you admire will lift you up more easily.
  We all wish to be with, and be liked by our friends. When you have friendship with people with strong wills and good behaviors, you will not only succeed more easily, but also find joy on your journey.
46. According to the passage, Carlin Flora wrote an article for_______.
A. Shenzhen Daily      B. China Daily      C. Times     D. The Sunday Star
47. The underline word ‘ones’ in the third paragraph means_______.
A. examples          B. behaviors          C. friends          D. aims
48. In the writer’s opinion, _______ is better for you after a busy and tiring day.
A. sitting in the room watching TV                 B. staying at home alone
C. spending hours in front of your computer          D. jogging with a friend
49. According to the writer, we should make friends with those who_______.
A. have the values and habits we admire             B. often go jogging with us
C. spending hours in front of your computer          D. jogging with a friend
50. The main idea of this passage is_______.
A. friends can help make your own stronger.
B. we all wish to be with, and be liked by our friends.
C. it’s best to stop bad habits by turning attention to different, good ones
D. friendship can help you stick to your aims and make you more successful
E.
  3D printing technology(技术) may not be a new thing in some foreign countries. But in May this year, at Shenzhen Convention and Exhibition Center(深圳会展中心). Many visitors were attracted by a 3D printer.
  The machine looks similar to an ordinary printer and can print a‘statue’in about 90 minutes after scanning anything, including a person.
  The writer prints layer(层)by layer. For example, if we want to print a 30-cm-tall statue, the computer will calculate the layers and print 460 layers in total. It can also print people and clothes. You can stand for scanning for just about three minutes, and a statue will be finished about two hours. The cost for a statue of a man is about 1000yuan. The printer, which costs about 500,000yuan, is from the USA.
 ‘We want to introduce this technology to people, and find more chances here.’said an engineer, ‘There is a company in USA that offers 3D printing services to people. Many people come to design their own thing. It is very cool. We hope that the printer will encourage more Chinese people to be more creative.’
51. A 3D printer_______.
A. is a common machine          B. prints layer by layer
C. can make clothes and people          D. is widely used in Shenzhen
52. How much should you pay if you want to have a statue of yourself printed?
A. 50,000yuan        B. 1000yuan       C. 500,000yuan       D. 100yuan
53. The engineer showed people the 3D printer to_______.
A. design new things          B. print statues for them
C. introduce this technology and find changes          D. calculate the layers
54. We can find this article in_______.
A, a travel guide   B. a restaurant menu     C. a newspaper     D. a textbook
55. The best title for the passage is_______.
A. A 3D printer made in Shenzhen        B. 3D printing looks for bigger market
C. 3D printing services in the USA        D. Design your own statue
ii. 选择下列词汇或短语完成下面对话，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共5分，每小题1分）
| A. too     B. against    C. What    D. How    E. producing    F. way |
| --- |

Anna: Pollution has become one of the biggest problems now. __56__ we do to fight pollution?
Mike: We can do many things. For example, stop factories __57__waste gases and stop using one-off(一次性的)things
Anna: Anything else?
Mike: We can also plant more trees because trees are best fighters__58__pollution.
Anna: I see. I have a good idea. Shall we go to plant trees in the park this weekend?
Mike: I think it’s__59__hot to plant trees now. We can do it in spring.
Anna: You are right. I didn’t think about that. By the __60__, what’s your plan for the weekend?
Mike: I’m going cycling along the river bank.
iii. 选择下列句子完成下面对话，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共5分，每小题1分）
| A. I’m the sports editor.          B. Where are you going to meet her? C. Who are you then?            D. It will be better for me to speak to Alice herself. E. When can I meet her?          F. I can get her for you. G. Can I take a message? |
| --- |

Tony: Excuse me. Are you Alice?
Mary: No. I’m Mary, Alice’s classmate. Alice is the leader of the girls’ volleyball team. __61__
Tony: I’m Tony from Class 3, Grade Eight. We are publishing a school newspaper this week. __62__I’d like to interview Alice about the girls’ volleyball.
Mary: I see. But she’s not here at the moment. __63__
Tony: Thank you very much. But I have a lot of questions to ask her. __64__
Mary: I’m afraid you’ll have to come for her again.
Tony: __65__
Mary: She’ll be here after school this afternoon. I’ll tell her to wait for you.
Tony: Thanks.
<div align="center">

第二卷 (非选择题，共20分)

</div>
根据句子意思，用所给单词的适当形式填空，将答案写在答卷上。（每小题1分，共10分）
66. He gave a _______(wonder)speech at the meeting.
67. After winning the game, we jumped and laughed _______(happy).
68. Please remind me_______(buy)some drinks for the party.
69. My sister hates pop music, but I _______(dislike)it very much.
70. It’s my_______(pleasant) to work with a nice person like you.
71. Tom received a piano as a present on his _______(nine) birthday.
72. When the two friends met again, they shook_______(hand)with each other excitedly.
73. Thank you for your dinner! It is so_______(taste).
74. Summer holiday is coming. I am thinking about _______(go)on a trip to Beijing.
75. On summer evenings, people enjoy _______(them)on the beach at Dameisha.
## 13年深圳市初中毕业生学业考试英语试卷参考答案
1-5 ABCBADC 6-10 DCABC 11-15 BDBDA 16-20 ABCCB
21-25 DCBCA 26-30 ABDBA
31-35 CCADC 36-40 BCACA 41-45 ACDBA 46-50 CBDAD 51-55 BBCCB
56-60 CEBAF 61-65 CAGDE
66-75 wonderful	happily	to buy	like	pleasure	ninth	hands	tasty	going themselves
76.
Sunday, 16 June
Today I went to the Window World with my family. On my way, I saw some uncivilized behavior. For example, I saw some people breaking traffic rules or throwing rubbish everywhere. Some people even smoked in public places.
In my opinion, as Shenzhen citizens, we should work hard to make Shenzhen a more civilized city. Firstly, we’d better develop a habit of helping others. Help the elderly if possible- offer seats to the old people on a bus. Secondly, don’t make too much noise in public places. Thirdly, pay attention to protecting the environment. Learn to be a green consumer.
As long as everyone tries his best, Shenzhen will become more and more beautiful. Let’s act now!
