<div align="center">

**2014 ****年广东省深圳市初中毕业生学业考试**** **

</div>
<div align="center">

**英**** ****语**

</div>
二、语言知识及运用（共两节，满分 20 分〉
**第一节**** **  单项选择（共10 小题；每小题 1 分，满分 10 分）
从 16~25 各题所给的 A、B、C 和 D 项中，选出可以填入空白处最佳选项，并在答题卡 上将该项涂黑。
16. A: I enjoyed the performance very much.
B: Yes, it was really good. I think________boy in white was the best actor.
	A: a	           B. an	      C: the	         D: /
17.1 always tell my students________on the road because it's really dangerous.
	A. not to play	B. to play not	C. not playing	  D. not play
18.	The man called his professor for help because he couldn't solve the problem by________•
	A. herself	   B. himself	    C. yourself	      D. themselves
19.	Could you say it again? I can't understand________you are talking about.
	A. how	       B. when	        C. what	      D. which
20.	---Must I finish my homework now?   ---No, you________. You can go home now.
	A. needn't	    B. mustn't	     C. shouldn't	   D. can't
21.	There is________news about this movie star in the newspaper. Where can I get some?
	A. many		    B. a few		  C. a lot		    D. little
22.1 couldn't do it________your great help. Thanks a lot!
	A. with		    B. without		    C. for		    D. to
23.	Thanks for your invitation, but I'm so sorry I can't go. I need to________my baby at home.
	A. take away		 B. take off		    C. take care of	 D. take out of
24.	A: You look very nice in your new dress today.
	B: Oh, really? I________it when it was on sale.
	A. buy		    B. bought		    C. have bought	  D. will buy
25. ---I feel really tired.
---_________.
	A. Lucky you!		      B. You'd better work harder
	C. Congratulation!		  D. Why not go and have a reat?
**第二节**   语法选择（共 10 小题；每小题 1 分，满分 10 分）
阅读下面短文，按照句子结构的语法性和上下文连贯的要求，从 26〜35 各题所给的 A、 B、C 和 D 项中选出最佳选项，并在答题卡上将该项涂黑。
It's very important that we all recycle (再利用)• In nature, everything	26	again. For example, when an animal dies, it becomes 27 animal's food. Nothing is wasted. But humans have created things like plastic bags 28 can't be broken down by nature. Our rubbish kills animals and 29 water and soil. 39 we continue making too much rubbish, the problem will only get worse. If nature can't reuse the rubbish, we must recycle We should clean up the rubbish we've made because nature can't.
Recycling is also the right thing to do for another reason. The earth is rich in natural materials like water and trees, 32 these materials are not endless. We use up our natural materials much 33 than the earth is able to reproduce them. For example，each year we cut 34 more that 6,000 square miles of forest. But it takes an average of 25 years for a new tree 35.
Recycling can help us save the earth, so let's take action right now.
26.	A. use	        B. using	    C. is used	    D. used
27.	A. another	    B. other	        C. others	    D. the other
28.	A. who	        B. which	    C. how	        D. where
29.	A. pollutes	    B. polluted	    C. polluting     D. is polluted
30.	A. When	    B. Whether	    C.Why	        D.If
31.	A. them	        B, their	        C. it	        D. itself
32.	A. but	        B. so	        C. and	        D. or
33.	A. fastly	        B. fast	        C. taster        D. fastest
34.	A. out	        B. down	    C. in	         D. up
35.	A. grows	    B. for growing	 C. growing	      D. to grow
**第三节**   完形填空（共 10 小翅：每小理 1 分，满分 10 分〉
阅读下面短文，掌握其大意，然后从 36-45 各题所给的 A、B、C 和 D 项中，选出最佳 选项，并在答题卡上将该项涂黑。
There once was a farmer who lost his watch in his bam (谷仓).The watch was only cheap but was very 36 to him because it was a gift from his father.
After 37 the bam for a long time, he gave up and asked for 38 from a group of children playing nearby. He 39 them that the person who found the watch would be rewarded.
Hearing this, the children hurried inside the barn 40 • They searched everywhere but still could not find the 41 . Just when the farmer was going to give up, a little boy went up to him and asked to be given another 42 .
The farmer looked at him and thought, “ Why not? After all, this kid looks honest ”
So the farmer 43 the little boy back into the bam. After a while the little boy came out with the watch in his hand! The surprised farmer asked the boy how he 44 where the rest had failed.
The boy replied，“ I did nothing but sit quietly and listen for the sound of the watch.”
This shows us that sometimes a 45 mind can think better than an excited one,
36.	A. important		B.expensive		C. useless		D. interesting
37.	A. finding		B.searching		C. watching		D. studying
38.	A. money		    B.danger			C. work			D. help
39.	A. promised		B.taught			C. warned		D. believed
40.	A. angrily		B.slowly			C. immediately	D. hardly
41.	A. rule			B.book			C. child			D. watch
42.	A. way			B.chance			C. lesson			D. smile
43.	A. threw			B.sent			C. gave			D. caught
44.	A. came			B.knew			C. succeeded		D. suggested
45.	A.beautiful		B.smart			C. peaceful		D. quick
四、阅读理解（共 20 小理；每小逛 2 分，满分 40 分）
<div align="center">

(A)

</div>
Once when I was a teenager, my father and I were standing in line to buy tickets for the circus. Finally, there was only one family between the ticket office and us. This family made a big impression on me.
There were eight children, all probably under the age of 12. You could tell they didn't have a lot of money. Their clothes were not expensive, but they were clean. The children talked excitedly about the clowns. It was clearly a very important day out for them. The father and mother seemed happy as they could be.
The tickets lady asked how many tickets the father wanted, he proudly answered, “Please let me buy eight Childers's tickets and two adults' tickets，so I can take my family to the circus.” The ticket lady told him the price.
The man's wife lowered her head. There was no longer a smile on the man's face. He quietly asked, “How much did you say?”
The ticket lady again told him the price.
The man obviously didn't have enough money. But how could he tell his kids the bad news? Seeing what was happening, my dad took a $20 note from his pocket and dropped in on the ground. (We were not rich ourselves at all!) He then tapped the man on the shoulder and said， “Excuse me, sir, you dropped this.”
The man understood my father was helping him. He picked up the money，looked straight into my dad's eyes, and in tears replied. “Thank you. This really means a lot to me and my family.”
Although we did not go to the circus that night, we didn't go without
46.	Why does the writer say “Their clothes were not expensive, but they were clean” ( Paragraph2)?
A.	To show the children were well looked after.
B.	To show cheap clothes could be popular.
C.	To show how hard the mother worked.
D.	To show how rich the family were.
47.	Why was the poor man unhappy after he spoke with the ticket lady?
A. He had lost his money.	                   B. His children were noisy.
C. The tickets were sold out                     D. The tickets were too expensive.
48.	Who did the $20 note belong to?
A, The poor man                             B. The writer's father.
C. The poor man's wife.                       D. The ticket lady.
49.	Why was the poor man in tears at the end of the story?
A. He found the money he lost.
B. He wanted others to help him.
C. He made his children unhappy.
D. He was thankful for the kindness.
50.	Which of the following statements is probably true according to the passage?
A.	The poor mans saw the circus that night.
B.	The two families became close friends.
C.	The writer’s father earned some money.
D.	The writer saw the circs that night.
<div align="center">

(B)

</div>
Lu Xun is one of the greatest Chinese writers of the 20th century. Besides his famous stories, he also wrote many influential articles about the living conditions of Chinese people.
Born in 1881 to a wealthy family, Lu Xun had a happy childhood. In 1893, however, his grandfather, a senior government official, was put into prison for taking money. At the same time, his father became seriously ill. From that time on, his family were no longer accepted by their relatives and friends. These early experiences greatly influenced his writing.
By the time Lu Xun arrived in Nanjing to study at university in 1899, he already believed that Chinese society had to change and become modem. In 1902 he went to study in Japan. There, he began writing articles for several Chinese student magazines. He showed a gift for writing and translating and he even wrote several books，although none was popular. He returned to China in 1909 because he was in need of money.
After working for several years as a teacher in Beijing, Lu Xun again returned to writing. In 1918, he wrote his famous short story Diary of a Madman. It was the first Chinese novel published using the everyday language that people spoke, which helped make it a great success. This, together with his novel The True Story of Ah Q (1921)，made Lu Xun a leading Chinese writer.
Although successful, Lu Xun still worried greatly about China’s future. In 1926， he moved to Shanghai and gave up writing stories in order to devote himself to what he called “pen warfare”. He now only wrote articles which called on the people to fight against the government. For this, the government stopped him from publishing any more books. He was forced to write his articles using false names.
Since his death in 1936, Lu Xun’s importance and influence have grown. Today, many of his writings are included in school textbooks and his works are read by millions around the world.
51.	Which of the following greatly influenced Lu Xun’s writing according to the passage?
A.	The people he met in Japan.
B.	The experiences in his early life.
C.	Working as a teacher in Beijing.
D.	His father’s being put into prison.
52.	According to the passage, why was Lu Xun’s story Diary of a Madam so popular?
A.	It was based on Lu Xun’s diary.
B.	It was the first novel to use everyday language.
C.	Its story took place in modem times.
D.	It was written using a western style.
53.	The underlined word “This” (Paragraph 4) refers to___________.
A.	the success of Diary of a Madman
B.	the use of everyday language
C.	the first Chinese novel
D.	The True Story of Ah Q
 54.	After moving to Shanghai，Lu Xun mainly wrote___________.
A.	funny stories
B.	articles about himself
C.	articles against the government
D.	stories about government officials
55.	In what order did these events take place in Lu Xun’s life?
a.	The government stopped him from publishing books.
b.	He wrote Diary of a Madman.
c.	His father became ill.
d.	He moved to Shanghai.
e.	His writings were put into textbooks.
A. c-a-b-d-e                       B. c-b-d-a-e
C. a-c-d-b-e                       D. a-d-b-c-e
<div align="center">

(C)

</div>
The Vieira family moved to the United States in 1981. At that time, they decided to stop speaking Spanish at home and only communicate in English. This was because they were now living in an English-speaking country.
Now the Vieira children are adults, and they sometimes travel to Spain to visit their family and friends. But they cannot communicate with them. Unfortunately this is common. When people move to new countries, they often leave their own customs and mother language behind. This is a mistake because there are many benefits to knowing more than one language.
One advantage of speaking more than one language is that you can communicate directly with more people around the world. You do not have to depend on others to talk for you, so you’re more independent. People who know only one language must use others to help them communicate.
Furthermore, speaking a second language also allows people to experience other cultures and customs more effectively. Local expressions, vocabulary, and even jokes can have a powerful effect on a person’s understanding of another culture. So, knowing more than one language increases your knowledge of other cultures.
Finally, having more multi-language speakers improves relationships between countries. If people from different countries can communicate well，the world can become closer. Countries will then have more respect for each other and better understand each other’s problems.
The benefits of knowing more than one language are clear. In fact, there are no disadvantages. It is very sad that many people don’t try to learn another language. It is even worse when people let themselves forget their mother language and become silenced.
56.	What is the passage mainly about?
A.	The benefits of learning other languages.
B.	The reasons why people come to America.
C.	The importance of learning English.
D.	How to learn another language.
57.	The passage begins with the experience of the Vieira family in order to___________.
A.	discuss the need for teaching a new language
B.	introduce the passage’s main characters to the readers
C.	describe the advantages of moving to another country
D.	show the problems of speaking only one language
58.	The underlined phrase “multi-language speakers” (Paragraph 5) means “people who know___________.”
A. their mother language				B. a new language
C. more than one language			D. body language
59.	According to the passage, if you can speak more than one language, you can___________.
A.	find a better job
B.	make more friends
C.	better understand history
D.	communicate more independently
60.	Based on the last paragraph, which of the following is the worst?
A.	Not knowing another language.
B.	Forgetting one's mother language.
C.	Refusing to learn another language.
D.	Failing to communicate with others.
<div align="center">

(D)

</div>
PRIVATE ENGLISH LESSONS
An experienced teacher is offering private lessons in English. Please email me at the address below and tell me:
♦Your age
♦Reasons for learning English
♦Your level of English
♦ Areas that you need to focus on - grammar, listening, speaking, reading, writing, etc.
Mrs. Daniels( daniels_m@mail.com)
From: Li_Hua@gmail.com To:daniels_m@mail.com
CC…：
Subject: English Lessons
Dear Mrs. Daniels,
I recently saw your advertisement on the university website offering private English lessons. I'm very interested in your private lessons and would like some more information.
I am a student at Aston College here in Hong Kong studying English, so my language level is already quite good.
However, I feel that I need to improve my listening and speaking skills. This is because I’m planning to study at London University in England next year and I think your lessons will help me to live and study abroad.
Could you send me some more information about the lessons offered, such as where and when they will be held and how much they cost? Also, I would like to know whether you teach students in groups or one-on-one.
I would be glad to supply any further information you might need.
Regards,
Li Hua
61.	Where did Li Hua see Mrs, Daniels’ advertisement?
A. At London University		B. In a newspaper
C. On the Internet			D. On TV
62.	Why did Li Hua write the email?
A.To make friends with Mrs. Daniels
B.To apply to study at London University
C.To get more information about Mrs. Daniel’s lessons
D. To find out more information about Aston College
63.	Which of the following information did Li Hua NOT mention in his email?
A. His age					B. His reasons for learning English
C. His language level			D. The language skills he wants to focus on
64.	Li Hua wants to take the lessons to improve his___________.
A. listening and writing 		B. writing and speaking
C. listening and grammar		D. listening and speaking
65.	What can we learn about Li Hua from his email?
A.He is now living in England
B.He is a student in Hong Kong
C.His level of English is very low.
D.He is studying at London University.
**五、写作**（共三节，满分 30 分）
第一节  单词拼写（共 5 小题，每小题 1 分，满分 5 分）
根据下列句子及所给单词的首字母写出所缺单词。在填写答卷时，要求写出完整单词。 (每空限填一词）
66.	David can r___________very fast. I'm sure he will win the race at the sports meeting.
67.	It’s dangerous to swim in the r___________. It’s safer to go to the swimming pool.
68.	Animals are useful. For example, we can get fresh m___________from cows.
69.	Your voice is very sweet. Would you s___________a song at the English party?
70.	Yao Ming, one of China’s best ever basketball player, is more than 2 meters t___________.
第二节   完成句子（共 5 小题，每小题 2 分，满分 10 分）
根据所给的汉语内容，用英语完成下列句子。（每空限填一词）
71.离开课室时请关灯。
Please___________ ___________the lights when you leave the classroom.
72.踢完足球后，他太兴奋了睡不着。
After the football game, he was___________excited___________sleep.
73.你的手好脏啊！快去洗！
___________ ___________your hands are! Go and wash them now.
74.在中国到处都有人打羽毛球。
In China, badminton____________ __________everywhere.
75.你知道在哪里买这种邮票吗？
Do you know__________ ___________ ____________this kind of stamp?
第三节  书面表达（共 1 题，满分 15 分）
新学期开始，你就读的国际学校的学生社团又开始招募了。假设你是社团负责人，请根据以下内容和提示要求写一篇英语短文，为新同学介绍下列社团的情况（包括名称、活动内容及其目的)
注意：
1.词数 80 左右（文章开头己给出，不计入词数)；
2.不得透露学校、姓名等任何个人信息，否则不予评分。
<div align="center">

Clubs are calling

</div>
The new term is coming. For all our new students, I would like to introduce some of our clubs …
笔试部分答案
单项选择 16-20 CABCA 21-25 DBCBD
语法选择 26-30 CABAD CACBD
完型填空 36-40 ABDAC DBBCC
阅读理解 46-50 ADBDA BBACB ADCDB CCADB
首字母填空 run, river, milk, sing, tall
完成句子 turn off
too, to，
How dirty, is played where to buy
