# **201****6****年广东省深圳市初中毕业生学业考试**
# **英语****试卷**
**说明：**
1. 答题前，请将姓名、考生号、考场、试室号和座位号用规定的笔写在答题卡指定的位置上，将条形码粘贴好。
2. 全卷分两部分，第一部分为选择题，1至25小题答案为A、B、C三个选项，26至45小题为A、B、C、D四个选项；第二部分为非选择题，共8页。考试时间为80分钟，满分85分。
3. 考生必须在答题卡上按规定作答；凡在答题卡以外的地方作答的，其答案一律无效。答题卡必须保持清洁，不能折叠。
4. 本卷选择题1~45，每小题选出答案后，用2B铅笔在答题卡选择题答题区内将相应题目的答案编号涂黑，如需改动，用橡皮擦干净后，再选涂其它答案；非选择题46~55及书面表达，必须用规定的笔在答题卡非选择题答题区内按相应的序号作答。
5. 考试结束，请将本试卷和答题卡一并交回。
<div align="center">

**第一部分****	****选择题（****60****分）**

</div>
**I.****词汇测试（****15****分）**
**i.****从下面每小题的****A****、****B****、****C****三个选项中选出可以替换划线部分的最佳选项，并在答题**** ****卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共****8****小题，每小题****1****分）**
1. — After leaving school, I think I'll miss my teachers.
—Me, too. All the teachers are so <u>friendly</u>. If I have time. I'll come back to see them.
| A. nice and kind | B. good and excited | C. glad and lucky |
| --- | --- | --- |

2. — The library near our school isn't open in the evening, so we can go there <u>during the day</u>. No problem, I'll go with you tomorrow.
| A. day after day | B. in the daytime | C. ail the time |
| --- | --- | --- |

3. — Mr. White, could you give me some <u>advice</u>? I have trouble in learning English.
— Sure. First，you should be confident and never give up. Second,...
| A. introductions | B. suggestions | C. instructions |
| --- | --- | --- |

4. —How did your class <u>raise</u> money for the poor old man in hospital?
—We organized a book fair on the playground and sold some books and CDs.
| A. collect | B. put up | C. spend |
| --- | --- | --- |

5. — A little giraffe has come to Shenzhen Safari Park. Shall we go and watch it?
Good idea! Let's go there together next Sunday.
| A. one by one | B. with each other | C. in our spare time |
| --- | --- | --- |

6. — My mum is ill. I have to stay at home and <u>look after</u> her.
—I'm sorry to hear that. I hope she can get better soon.
| A. look at | B. look for | C. care for |
| --- | --- | --- |

7. — Excuse me, could you please tell me the way to the Book City?
—OK. Walk along this street till you reach the Children's Palace. The Book City is <u>opposite</u> it.
| A. on the other side of | B. in front of | C. next to |
| --- | --- | --- |

8. — Good news! Metro Line 11 will be open on June 30 in our city.
—Great! It will make our lives <u>more convenient</u>.
| A. richer | B. easier | C. faster |
| --- | --- | --- |

9. A_______is a person who is in someone's home by invitation, for a short time, as for a meal, or to stay one or more nights.
| A. boss | B. customer | C. guest |
| --- | --- | --- |

10. The Dragon Boat Festival is an important day in our country. On that day we can have some_______food like “Zongzi".
| A. national | B. western | C. traditional |
| --- | --- | --- |

11. — Miss Wang, I'm sorry I am late because I _______ to catch the early bus.
—It doesn't matter. You'd better come to school earlier next time.
| A. needed | B. failed | C. managed |
| --- | --- | --- |

12. —It is reported that many wild animals in the world are_______because of human behavior.
—We must do something to stop people from hunting and selling these animals.
| A. in danger | B. in public | C. in silence |
| --- | --- | --- |

13.—This summer a lot of athletes will go to Brazil to_______the 2016 Rio Olympics.
—I love sports and I can't wait to enjoy the exciting moments.
| A. take part in | B. take pride in | C. take in |
| --- | --- | --- |

14. — What about going to see Captain America: Civil War (《美国队长3》)this Tuesday?
—I，d love to, but I'm very busy on weekdays._______，I can go only on weekends.
| A. For example | B. Since then | C. That is |
| --- | --- | --- |

15. —I had a quarrel with my friend Jim yesterday, and now I_______it.
—Why not go and say sorry to him at once? It's never too late to mend.
| A. feel ashamed of | B. am proud of | C. am interested in |
| --- | --- | --- |

**II.****完形填空（****15****分）**
**阅读下面短文，从短文后所给的****A****、****B****、****C****三个选项中选出能填入相应空白处的最佳选项，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共****10****小题，每小题****1.5****分）**
When I was ten, my mother worked all day, so I had to take care of my younger brother. At that time, my little brother was about four years old and he <u> 16 </u> mum all the time.
One day, after I had given him his dinner, he started crying for mum. He was so young and really needed mum. So I dressed him, put on his <u> 17 </u> , carried him on my back and walked out. Soon he fell asleep. About half an hour later, I found that lie lost a shoe while he was <u> 18 </u> . I took him off my back and put him <u> 19 </u> . I knew we needed to find that shoe, for our mother couldn't afford new shoes. I had to <u> 20 </u> to find it, so I told my brother to wait right there. A man heard it and stopped me just <u> 21 </u> I walked off. He asked me, “You are leaving your brother here to find the shoe? What will you do if he is not here when you return?” I didn't know <u> 22 </u> to answer that question. He continued, “It's OK if you cant find the shoe, but it is not OK to lose your <u> 23 </u> ." Then he sent us to mum's workplace by taxi.
During my whole life I have received the <u> 24 </u> from many strangers. I feel sorry that I can't find them and say "<u> 25 </u> ". I do not even remember what their faces looked like, but they taught me a lesson—people are more important than things.
| 16. A. loved | B. missed | C. called |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 17. A. clothes | B. coat | C. shoes |
| 18. A. sleeping | B. running | C. walking |
| 19. A. down | B. up | C. on |
| 20. A. get up | B. go out | C. go back |
| 21. A. after | B. before | C. until |
| 22. A. how | B. what | C. when |
| 23. A. dad | B. mum | C. brother |
| 24 A. happiness | B kindness | C sadness |
| 25 A. Thank you | B Never mind | C You're welcome |

w   w w .x k b 1.c o m
**III.****阅读理解（****30****分）**
**阅读下面短文，从下面每小题的****A****、****B****、****C****、****D****四个选项中选出最佳选项，并在答题卡**** ****将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共****20****小题，每小题****1.5****分）**
<div align="center">

**A**

</div>
|  | **Passage 1** The Shenzhen Railway Station and the Shenzhen East Railway Station will add six temporary (临时的）trains between Friday and Monday during the coming festival. The Shenzhen Railway Station will add train K6604 and K6606 to Guiyang， K6512 to Shantung, K6552 to Yongzhou and K9088 to Zhangjiajie. The Shenzhen East Railway Station will add K6532 to Nanxiong in Guangdong Province. |
| --- | --- |
|  | **Passage 2 **The 2016 Shenzhen Fashion Week began at OCT Bay in Nanshan District last Friday. Over 100 brands and designers (设计师）from more than 10 countries put on over 60 fashion shows during the week. A number of well-known designers attended Fashion Week. The event will end tomorrow. |
|  | **Passage 3** Shenzhen became No.7 in traffic jams among Chinese cities, according to a quarterly report made by amap.com and Tsinghua University. Jinan City in Shandong Province passed Beijing for the second time to become the most congested(拥堵 的）Chinese city. Beijing, Hangzhou, Harbin and Chongqing were among the top five. |
|  | **Passage 4 **Zhang Yuetoiig, a 12-year-old girl from Shenzhen, won the Guangxi leg (赛区) of the National Rock-climbing Competition, which was held on Tuesday. She is the youngest winner in the history of the rock-climbing competition. She started training at the age of 4. |

26. According to Passage 1，how many temporary trains will the Shenzhen Railway Station add?
| A. 1 x k b 1 | B. 5 | C.6 | D. 7 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

27. From the report in Passage 3, we know that _______ became No. 1 in traffic jams.
| A. Beijing | B. Shenzhen | C. Jinan | D. Hangzhou |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

28. Which of the following statements is TRUE?
| A. The Shenzhen Railway Station will add Train K6512 to Yueyang. |
| --- |
| B. There were more than 100 fashion shows during the fashion week. |
| C. You seldom get caught in a traffic jam in Shenzhen. |
| D. Zhang Yuetong has been trained to do rock-climbing for 8 years. |

29. The four short passages probably come from_______.
| A. tales | B. newspapers | C. storybook | D. novels |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

<div align="center">

**B**

</div>
In the summer between my first year and second year in college, I was invited to be an instructor (辅导员）at a high school camp. On the first day, when we were dancing and playing games, I noticed a boy under the tree who was small and thin. His shyness made him appear weak. I walked towards him, introduced myself and invited him to join in the activities and meet some new people. He quietly replied, "No, I really don't want to do this." I could understand that he was in a new world but I knew it wouldn't be right to force him, either. Actually, the boy didn't need a close talk but a friend.
At lunch the next day, I was leading camp songs when 1 saw the boy under the tree sitting alone. I tried again with the same invitation, but he refused once again. That evening I was told the boy's name was Tommy. Then I asked the campers to pay special attention to the boy and spend time with him when they could.
The days went by and the time came when we had to leave. We held a big, warm parly to celebrate the closing of the camp. All the campers shared their wonderful moments. To my surprise. 1 found the boy from under the tree dancing joyfully with two girls. I couldn't believe it was the same person.
In October of my second year, I received a phone call from Tommy's mother. She told me that Tommy was hit by a car and killed. I offered my deep sadness. The mother said: “'Tommy mentioned you so many times. I want you to know that he went back to school and made new friends with confidence. You made a difference for Tommy during his last months.”
At that moment, I realized how easy it was to give a bit of yourself every day. You may never know how much each gesture may mean to someone else. I hope that everyone can pay attention to their own “boy under the tree”.
30. Before the writer came to the high school summer camp，he was a (n) _______.
| A. instructor | B. camper | C. student | D. reporter |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

31. How many times did the writer invite the boy to join in the activities?
| A. Once | B. Twice | C. Three times | D. Many times |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

32. Which is the correct order about the story?
①The boy danced joyfully with two girls.
②The boy went back to school and made new friends.
③The boy refused to join in the activities.
④The boy's mother made a phone call to the writer.
| A. ①②③④ | B.②③①④ | C.③①②④ | D.④③②① |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

33.From Paragraph 4，we can infer (推断）that Tommy's mother was very_______to the writer.
| A. thankful | B. helpful | C. faithful | D. harmful |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

<div align="center">

**C**

</div>
Students at a primary school in Fuzhou, Hast China's Fujian Province were required to clean the school toilets to help them develop good habits. But some parents are strongly against the idea. They can't see the advantages of students doing such chores (杂亊). They think that the school should provide students with a proper education, not the chance to be school cleaners.
In fact, parents, schools and society play an equally (同等地）important role in developing the character of students. It is good for schools to give students such tasks，because few of the students will do them at home. Their parents want them to do homework only.
In recent years, some parents will **make mountains out of molehills** when students are asked to do some chores in schools. Some complain about the teachers if their kids get hurt in schools; some even challenge the schools' teaching methods and management. As a result, many primary schools, especially those in big cities, do not let students join in outdoor activities during breaks, fearing that they might get hurt. This is bad for the development of students' best qualities.
What the primary school in Fuzhou is doing is worth praising. Doing chores can put a sense of responsibility into students' minds and teach them the spirit of rules as well as teamwork. Also, it can make students' in-school experiences more meaningful.
34. A primary school in Fuzhou required the students to_______.
| A. do homework only | B. finish homework at school |
| --- | --- |
| C. clean the playground | D. clean the school toilets |

35. Some parents think that the school should provide students with_______.
| A. a proper education | B. a chance to be cleaners |
| --- | --- |
| C. a chance to be teachers | D. more housework |

36. The underlined phrase **"make mountains out of molehills"** means
| A.愚公移山 | B.山穷水尽 | C.小题大做 | D.眉飞色舞 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

37. What is the main idea of the passage?
| A. Students shouldn't do any chores in school. |
| --- |
| B. Parents require students to do some chores in school. |
| C. Some parents think doing some chores is harmful to students. |
| D. Doing some chores can develop students' good qualities. |

<div align="center">

**D**

</div>
In the UK. Saturday evenings have always been a popular time for families to watch television together. One of the most popular programme **genres** is the talent show, partly because people of all ages are interested in it.
Early shows, like Opportunity Knocks (1965-1978), required people to vote (投栗）for their favorite acts and performers, although in those days voting was done by postcard instead of by telephone, text, or over the Internet. Today, the success of television talent shows has reached a new level. Here are Ihe UK's top three TV talent shows:
**The X Factor** In this wonderful singing competition, performers have to face a celebrity judge panel (名人裁判组）before the public vote. Many excellent singers became popular because of it. The show is now made all over the world, from China to Colombia.
**Strictly Come Dancing**—The programme is so fantastic that it attracts many celebrities. They team up with professional (专业的）dancers and come to the dance floor to win the title of Strictly Come Dancing Champion.
**Britain's Got Talent** — In this modern-day version (版本）of **Opportunity Knocks**, the public can go and choose from many kinds of acts, from dancing dogs to ice skating. The prize is to perform for the Queen in the Royal Variety of Performance.
38. When did the show Opportunity Knocks begin?
| A. In 1965. | B. In 1978. | C. In 2015. | D. K is not mentioned. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

39. If a person loves a skating act, he or she may go to_______.
| A. Opportunity Knocks | B. Strictly Come Dancing |
| --- | --- |
| C. The X Factor | D. Britain's Got Talent |

40. Which of the following is **NOT** true according to the passage?
| A. The winners of Britain's Got Talent can perform for the Queen. |
| --- |
| B. If you want your dog to have a performance, you can go to Britain's Got Talent with it. |
| C. Opportunity Knocks is still on television now. |
| D. People of all ages enjoy TV talent shows in UK. |

41. The underline word “genres” in the first paragraph means_______.
| A. lists | B. types | C. choices | D. expressions |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

<div align="center">

**E**

</div>
All over the world the need for more laptops and computers increases each year. Networks have been part of our life. Probably everyone with a portable device (移动设备} has once logged on to a public WiFi network without paying for it, while they are having a coffee, on a train, in a shopping mall or at a hotel. However, is this kind of public WiFi network safe?
Some networks are better protected than others because encryption (加密）methods are used. Therefore, they are safer than others. But a survey in 2015 showed that more than 950 million records were not protected, including addresses, emails, birth dales, phone numbers, passwords and so on. These open WiFi networks are really not safe, because it is very easy for hackers (黑客） to break into the operating system and get people's private information.
Most smartphones and laptops, by themselves, search and connect to WiFi networks. They usually prefer a network with a connection that has been used before. Hackers' devices are able to record these searches and look like the trusted WiFi networks. When these smartphones and laptops log on to the networks which are not real, hackers can easily steal their private information.
So next time, when we want to use our laptops or our smartphones in public places which offer free WiFi networks，please think it twice or take safe measures before using them.
42. Why do people like to go log on to a public WiFi network?
| A. Because it can provide useful information. |
| --- |
| B. Because the owner of the network is polite. |
| C. Because it is free. |
| D. Because it is safe. |

43. We can learn from the passage that_•
| A. not all the public WiFi networks are safe |
| --- |
| B. none of the public WiFi networks is safe |
| C. in 2015 more than 950 million records were protected |
| D. there is no way to protect our private information |

44. Hackers would probably get the following EXCEPT_______when we connect our laptops or smartphones to a public WiFi network.
| A. our birth dates | B. our passwords |
| --- | --- |
| C. our phone numbers | D. our smartphones |

45. Which of the following can be the best title of this passage?
| A. Don't Use Public WiFi Networks |
| --- |
| B. Why the Public WiFi Networks a Possible Danger |
| C. We Needn't Protect Our Private Information |
| D. Why Hackers Break into the Operating System |

<div align="center">

**第二部分非选择题（****25****分****)**

</div>
**IV.****语法填空（****10****分）**
**阅读下面短文，根据文章大意用所给单词的适当形式填空（未提供单词的，限填一词****), ****使文章意思完整、正确，并将答案写在答题卡相应位罝。（共****10****小题，每小题****I****分）**
A dog entered a butcher's shop with a note in his mouth. The note read, “$10 of lamb chops (羊排），please.”
The butcher was very <u> 46 </u> (surprise). He took the money, put a bag of chops in the <u> 47 </u> (dog) mouth, and then he closed the shop <u> 48 </u> (quick). He followed the dog and watched him wait for a green light. Then the dog crossed the road to a bus stop. He checked the timetable and sat on the bench. When a bus arrived, the dog checked the number and got <u> 49 </u> it.
As the bus traveled out into the countryside, the dog enjoyed the scenery. After <u> 50 </u> while, he stood on his back paws (爪子）<u> 51 </u> (push) the “stop” button. Then the butcher followed <u> 52 </u> (he) off.
The dog ran up to a house and dropped his bag on the ground. He went back down the path, took a big run, and <u> 53 </u> (throw) himself against the door. No answer. He repeated the action a few times. Then a big man opened the door <u> 54 </u> started complaining about the dog and beating him.
Seeing this, the butcher ran up and shouted at the man, “What are you doing? This dog is a genius!” The man replied, “Genius? No way! Me has forgotten his key for the <u> 55 </u> (four) time this month!”
**V.****书面表达（****15****分）**
**近年来，越来越多的外籍人士融入到深圳社区生活。假设你的小区也居住着这样一个群体，社区委员会为****丰富****他们的生活，计划在下周六专为外籍人士安排一次采摘荔枝活动，请你帮忙用英文写一份书面通知，传达给他们。**
**要点：**
**1) ****下周六上午****8:00****在北门集合，乘大巴友****“****幸福农场****”****采摘荔枝，下午****4:30****返回；**
**2****)**** ****享受乡村自然美镜，感受干农活的乐趣；**
**3) ****请在下周四下午****6:00****前去办公室报名；**
**4) ****你可以带上****……****；另外****.......**
**注意：****w!w!w.!x!k!b!1.com**
**1)****字数：****80****字左右（开头和结尾已给出，不计入总字数）**
**2)****文章必须包含所有提示内容，并可作适当发挥；**
**3)****不得出现真实姓名和校名；**
**4)****条理清楚，语句迪顺，意思连贯，书写规范。**
**参考词汇****: ****荔枝****lychee   ****报名****sign one's name   ****幸福农场****Happy Farm**
<div align="center">

**NOTICE **

</div>
June 25
In order to enrich the life of the residents （居民）, the Community Union is going to organize a special activity for next Saturday.
<div align="center">

_________________________________________________________________________________________

</div>
<div align="center">

_________________________________________________________________________________________

</div>
<div align="center">

_________________________________________________________________________________________

</div>
<div align="center">

_________________________________________________________________________________________

</div>
<div align="center">

_________________________________________________________________________________________

</div>
<div align="center">

_________________________________________________________________________________________

</div>
Wish you a wonderful time!
The Community Union
## **【参考范文】**
**I.****词汇测试**
**1-5 ABBAB    6-10 CABCC    11-15 BAACA **
**II.****完形填空**
**16-20 BCAAC    21-25 BACBA **
**III.****阅读理解**
**26-30 BCDBC    31-35 BCADA    36-40 CDADC    41-45 BCADB **
**IV.****语法填空**
**46.surprised****	47.dogs****	48.quickly****	49.on****	50.a**
**51.to push****	52.him****	53.throw****	54.and****	55.fourth**
**V.****书面表达**
<div align="center">

**NOTICE**

</div>
**June 25**
**In order to enrich the life of the residents (****居民****)****，****the Community Union is going to organize a special activity for next Saturday.**
**We have organized a bus trip to Happy Farm for foreigners, where we plan to pick lychees. We will gather at the North Gate at 8 a.m. and return at 4:30 p.m. next Saturday. During the trip, we can appreciate natural scenery in the countryside and have fun in farming work. Of course, you can take an umbrella so as not to get sunburnt. Besides, your safety should be taken into consideration.**
**Sign your name in our office before 6 p.m. next Thursday if you are interested.**
**Wish you a wonderful time!**
**The Community Union**
