# **201****6****年广东省深圳市初中毕业生学业考试**
# **英语****试卷**
**说明：**
1. 答题前，请将姓名、考生号、考场、试室号和座位号用规定的笔写在答题卡指定的位置上，将条形码粘贴好。
2. 全卷分两部分，第一部分为选择题，1至25小题答案为A、B、C三个选项，26至45小题为A、B、C、D四个选项；第二部分为非选择题，共8页。考试时间为80分钟，满分85分。
3. 考生必须在答题卡上按规定作答；凡在答题卡以外的地方作答的，其答案一律无效。答题卡必须保持清洁，不能折叠。
4. 本卷选择题1~45，每小题选出答案后，用2B铅笔在答题卡选择题答题区内将相应题目的答案编号涂黑，如需改动，用橡皮擦干净后，再选涂其它答案；非选择题46~55及书面表达，必须用规定的笔在答题卡非选择题答题区内按相应的序号作答。
5. 考试结束，请将本试卷和答题卡一并交回。
<div align="center">

**第一部分****	****选择题（****60****分）**

</div>
**I.****词汇测试（****15****分）**
**i.****从下面每小题的****A****、****B****、****C****三个选项中选出可以替换划线部分的最佳选项，并在答题**** ****卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共****8****小题，每小题****1****分）**
1. — After leaving school, I think I'll miss my teachers.
—Me, too. All the teachers are so <u>friendly</u>. If I have time. I'll come back to see them.
| A. nice and kind | B. good and excited | C. glad and lucky |
| --- | --- | --- |

2. — The library near our school isn't open in the evening, so we can go there <u>during the day</u>. No problem, I'll go with you tomorrow.
| A. day after day | B. in the daytime | C. ail the time |
| --- | --- | --- |

3. — Mr. White, could you give me some <u>advice</u>? I have trouble in learning English.
— Sure. First，you should be confident and never give up. Second,...
| A. introductions | B. suggestions | C. instructions |
| --- | --- | --- |

4. —How did your class <u>raise</u> money for the poor old man in hospital?
—We organized a book fair on the playground and sold some books and CDs.
| A. collect | B. put up | C. spend |
| --- | --- | --- |

5. — A little giraffe has come to Shenzhen Safari Park. Shall we go and watch it?
Good idea! Let's go there together next Sunday.
| A. one by one | B. with each other | C. in our spare time |
| --- | --- | --- |

6. — My mum is ill. I have to stay at home and <u>look after</u> her.
—I'm sorry to hear that. I hope she can get better soon.
| A. look at | B. look for | C. care for |
| --- | --- | --- |

7. — Excuse me, could you please tell me the way to the Book City?
—OK. Walk along this street till you reach the Children's Palace. The Book City is <u>opposite</u> it.
| A. on the other side of | B. in front of | C. next to |
| --- | --- | --- |

8. — Good news! Metro Line 11 will be open on June 30 in our city.
—Great! It will make our lives <u>more convenient</u>.
| A. richer | B. easier | C. faster |
| --- | --- | --- |

9. A_______is a person who is in someone's home by invitation, for a short time, as for a meal, or to stay one or more nights.
| A. boss | B. customer | C. guest |
| --- | --- | --- |

10. The Dragon Boat Festival is an important day in our country. On that day we can have some_______food like “Zongzi".
| A. national | B. western | C. traditional |
| --- | --- | --- |

11. — Miss Wang, I'm sorry I am late because I _______ to catch the early bus.
—It doesn't matter. You'd better come to school earlier next time.
| A. needed | B. failed | C. managed |
| --- | --- | --- |

12. —It is reported that many wild animals in the world are_______because of human behavior.
—We must do something to stop people from hunting and selling these animals.
| A. in danger | B. in public | C. in silence |
| --- | --- | --- |

13.—This summer a lot of athletes will go to Brazil to_______the 2016 Rio Olympics.
—I love sports and I can't wait to enjoy the exciting moments.
| A. take part in | B. take pride in | C. take in |
| --- | --- | --- |

14. — What about going to see Captain America: Civil War (《美国队长3》)this Tuesday?
—I，d love to, but I'm very busy on weekdays._______，I can go only on weekends.
| A. For example | B. Since then | C. That is |
| --- | --- | --- |

15. —I had a quarrel with my friend Jim yesterday, and now I_______it.
—Why not go and say sorry to him at once? It's never too late to mend.
| A. feel ashamed of | B. am proud of | C. am interested in |
| --- | --- | --- |

**II.****完形填空（****15****分）**
**阅读下面短文，从短文后所给的****A****、****B****、****C****三个选项中选出能填入相应空白处的最佳选项，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共****10****小题，每小题****1.5****分）**
When I was ten, my mother worked all day, so I had to take care of my younger brother. At that time, my little brother was about four years old and he <u> 16 </u> mum all the time.
One day, after I had given him his dinner, he started crying for mum. He was so young and really needed mum. So I dressed him, put on his <u> 17 </u> , carried him on my back and walked out. Soon he fell asleep. About half an hour later, I found that lie lost a shoe while he was <u> 18 </u> . I took him off my back and put him <u> 19 </u> . I knew we needed to find that shoe, for our mother couldn't afford new shoes. I had to <u> 20 </u> to find it, so I told my brother to wait right there. A man heard it and stopped me just <u> 21 </u> I walked off. He asked me, “You are leaving your brother here to find the shoe? What will you do if he is not here when you return?” I didn't know <u> 22 </u> to answer that question. He continued, “It's OK if you cant find the shoe, but it is not OK to lose your <u> 23 </u> ." Then he sent us to mum's workplace by taxi.
During my whole life I have received the <u> 24 </u> from many strangers. I feel sorry that I can't find them and say "<u> 25 </u> ". I do not even remember what their faces looked like, but they taught me a lesson—people are more important than things.
| 16. A. loved | B. missed | C. called |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 17. A. clothes | B. coat | C. shoes |
| 18. A. sleeping | B. running | C. walking |
| 19. A. down | B. up | C. on |
| 20. A. get up | B. go out | C. go back |
| 21. A. after | B. before | C. until |
| 22. A. how | B. what | C. when |
| 23. A. dad | B. mum | C. brother |
| 24 A. happiness | B kindness | C sadness |
| 25 A. Thank you | B Never mind | C You're welcome |

w   w w .x k b 1.c o m
**III.****阅读理解（****30****分）**
**阅读下面短文，从下面每小题的****A****、****B****、****C****、****D****四个选项中选出最佳选项，并在答题卡**** ****将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共****20****小题，每小题****1.5****分）**
<div align="center">

**A**

</div>
|  | **Passage 1** The Shenzhen Railway Station and the Shenzhen East Railway Station will add six temporary (临时的）trains between Friday and Monday during the coming festival. The Shenzhen Railway Station will add train K6604 and K6606 to Guiyang， K6512 to Shantung, K6552 to Yongzhou and K9088 to Zhangjiajie. The Shenzhen East Railway Station will add K6532 to Nanxiong in Guangdong Province. |
| --- | --- |
|  | **Passage 2 **The 2016 Shenzhen Fashion Week began at OCT Bay in Nanshan District last Friday. Over 100 brands and designers (设计师）from more than 10 countries put on over 60 fashion shows during the week. A number of well-known designers attended Fashion Week. The event will end tomorrow. |
|  | **Passage 3** Shenzhen became No.7 in traffic jams among Chinese cities, according to a quarterly report made by amap.com and Tsinghua University. Jinan City in Shandong Province passed Beijing for the second time to become the most congested(拥堵 的）Chinese city. Beijing, Hangzhou, Harbin and Chongqing were among the top five. |
|  | **Passage 4 **Zhang Yuetoiig, a 12-year-old girl from Shenzhen, won the Guangxi leg (赛区) of the National Rock-climbing Competition, which was held on Tuesday. She is the youngest winner in the history of the rock-climbing competition. She started training at the age of 4. |

26. According to Passage 1，how many temporary trains will the Shenzhen Railway Station add?
| A. 1 x k b 1 | B. 5 | C.6 | D. 7 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

27. From the report in Passage 3, we know that _______ became No. 1 in traffic jams.
| A. Beijing | B. Shenzhen | C. Jinan | D. Hangzhou |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

28. Which of the following statements is TRUE?
| A. The Shenzhen Railway Station will add Train K6512 to Yueyang. |
| --- |
| B. There were more than 100 fashion shows during the fashion week. |
| C. You seldom get caught in a traffic jam in Shenzhen. |
| D. Zhang Yuetong has been trained to do rock-climbing for 8 years. |

29. The four short passages probably come from_______.
| A. tales | B. newspapers | C. storybook | D. novels |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

<div align="center">

**B**

</div>
In the summer between my first year and second year in college, I was invited to be an instructor (辅导员）at a high school camp. On the first day, when we were dancing and playing games, I noticed a boy under the tree who was small and thin. His shyness made him appear weak. I walked towards him, introduced myself and invited him to join in the activities and meet some new people. He quietly replied, "No, I really don't want to do this." I could understand that he was in a new world but I knew it wouldn't be right to force him, either. Actually, the boy didn't need a close talk but a friend.
At lunch the next day, I was leading camp songs when 1 saw the boy under the tree sitting alone. I tried again with the same invitation, but he refused once again. That evening I was told the boy's name was Tommy. Then I asked the campers to pay special attention to the boy and spend time with him when they could.
The days went by and the time came when we had to leave. We held a big, warm parly to celebrate the closing of the camp. All the campers shared their wonderful moments. To my surprise. 1 found the boy from under the tree dancing joyfully with two girls. I couldn't believe it was the same person.
In October of my second year, I received a phone call from Tommy's mother. She told me that Tommy was hit by a car and killed. I offered my deep sadness. The mother said: “'Tommy mentioned you so many times. I want you to know that he went back to school and made new friends with confidence. You made a difference for Tommy during his last months.”
At that moment, I realized how easy it was to give a bit of yourself every day. You may never know how much each gesture may mean to someone else. I hope that everyone can pay attention to their own “boy under the tree”.
30. Before the writer came to the high school summer camp，he was a (n) _______.
| A. instructor | B. camper | C. student | D. reporter |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

31. How many times did the writer invite the boy to join in the activities?
| A. Once | B. Twice | C. Three times | D. Many times |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

32. Which is the correct order about the story?
①The boy danced joyfully with two girls.
②The boy went back to school and made new friends.
③The boy refused to join in the activities.
④The boy's mother made a phone call to the writer.
| A. ①②③④ | B.②③①④ | C.③①②④ | D.④③②① |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

33.From Paragraph 4，we can infer (推断）that Tommy's mother was very_______to the writer.
| A. thankful | B. helpful | C. faithful | D. harmful |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

<div align="center">

**C**

</div>
Students at a primary school in Fuzhou, Hast China's Fujian Province were required to clean the school toilets to help them develop good habits. But some parents are strongly against the idea. They can't see the advantages of students doing such chores (杂亊). They think that the school should provide students with a proper education, not the chance to be school cleaners.
In fact, parents, schools and society play an equally (同等地）important role in developing the character of students. It is good for schools to give students such tasks，because few of the students will do them at home. Their parents want them to do homework only.
In recent years, some parents will **make mountains out of molehills** when students are asked to do some chores in schools. Some complain about the teachers if their kids get hurt in schools; some even challenge the schools' teaching methods and management. As a result, many primary schools, especially those in big cities, do not let students join in outdoor activities during breaks, fearing that they might get hurt. This is bad for the development of students' best qualities.
What the primary school in Fuzhou is doing is worth praising. Doing chores can put a sense of responsibility into students' minds and teach them the spirit of rules as well as teamwork. Also, it can make students' in-school experiences more meaningful.
34. A primary school in Fuzhou required the students to_______.
| A. do homework only | B. finish homework at school |
| --- | --- |
| C. clean the playground | D. clean the school toilets |

35. Some parents think that the school should provide students with_______.
| A. a proper education | B. a chance to be cleaners |
| --- | --- |
| C. a chance to be teachers | D. more housework |

36. The underlined phrase **"make mountains out of molehills"** means
| A.愚公移山 | B.山穷水尽 | C.小题大做 | D.眉飞色舞 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

37. What is the main idea of the passage?
| A. Students shouldn't do any chores in school. |
| --- |
| B. Parents require students to do some chores in school. |
| C. Some parents think doing some chores is harmful to students. |
| D. Doing some chores can develop students' good qualities. |

<div align="center">

**D**

</div>
In the UK. Saturday evenings have always been a popular time for families to watch television together. One of the most popular programme **genres** is the talent show, partly because people of all ages are interested in it.
Early shows, like Opportunity Knocks (1965-1978), required people to vote (投栗）for their favorite acts and performers, although in those days voting was done by postcard instead of by telephone, text, or over the Internet. Today, the success of television talent shows has reached a new level. Here are Ihe UK's top three TV talent shows:
**The X Factor** In this wonderful singing competition, performers have to face a celebrity judge panel (名人裁判组）before the public vote. Many excellent singers became popular because of it. The show is now made all over the world, from China to Colombia.
**Strictly Come Dancing**—The programme is so fantastic that it attracts many celebrities. They team up with professional (专业的）dancers and come to the dance floor to win the title of Strictly Come Dancing Champion.
**Britain's Got Talent** — In this modern-day version (版本）of **Opportunity Knocks**, the public can go and choose from many kinds of acts, from dancing dogs to ice skating. The prize is to perform for the Queen in the Royal Variety of Performance.
38. When did the show Opportunity Knocks begin?
| A. In 1965. | B. In 1978. | C. In 2015. | D. K is not mentioned. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

39. If a person loves a skating act, he or she may go to_______.
| A. Opportunity Knocks | B. Strictly Come Dancing |
| --- | --- |
| C. The X Factor | D. Britain's Got Talent |

40. Which of the following is **NOT** true according to the passage?
| A. The winners of Britain's Got Talent can perform for the Queen. |
| --- |
| B. If you want your dog to have a performance, you can go to Britain's Got Talent with it. |
| C. Opportunity Knocks is still on television now. |
| D. People of all ages enjoy TV talent shows in UK. |

41. The underline word “genres” in the first paragraph means_______.
| A. lists | B. types | C. choices | D. expressions |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

<div align="center">

**E**

</div>
All over the world the need for more laptops and computers increases each year. Networks have been part of our life. Probably everyone with a portable device (移动设备} has once logged on to a public WiFi network without paying for it, while they are having a coffee, on a train, in a shopping mall or at a hotel. However, is this kind of public WiFi network safe?
Some networks are better protected than others because encryption (加密）methods are used. Therefore, they are safer than others. But a survey in 2015 showed that more than 950 million records were not protected, including addresses, emails, birth dales, phone numbers, passwords and so on. These open WiFi networks are really not safe, because it is very easy for hackers (黑客） to break into the operating system and get people's private information.
Most smartphones and laptops, by themselves, search and connect to WiFi networks. They usually prefer a network with a connection that has been used before. Hackers' devices are able to record these searches and look like the trusted WiFi networks. When these smartphones and laptops log on to the networks which are not real, hackers can easily steal their private information.
So next time, when we want to use our laptops or our smartphones in public places which offer free WiFi networks，please think it twice or take safe measures before using them.
42. Why do people like to go log on to a public WiFi network?
| A. Because it can provide useful information. |
| --- |
| B. Because the owner of the network is polite. |
| C. Because it is free. |
| D. Because it is safe. |

43. We can learn from the passage that_•
| A. not all the public WiFi networks are safe |
| --- |
| B. none of the public WiFi networks is safe |
| C. in 2015 more than 950 million records were protected |
| D. there is no way to protect our private information |

44. Hackers would probably get the following EXCEPT_______when we connect our laptops or smartphones to a public WiFi network.
| A. our birth dates | B. our passwords |
| --- | --- |
| C. our phone numbers | D. our smartphones |

45. Which of the following can be the best title of this passage?
| A. Don't Use Public WiFi Networks |
| --- |
| B. Why the Public WiFi Networks a Possible Danger |
| C. We Needn't Protect Our Private Information |
| D. Why Hackers Break into the Operating System |

<div align="center">

**第二部分非选择题（****25****分****)**

</div>
**IV.****语法填空（****10****分）**
**阅读下面短文，根据文章大意用所给单词的适当形式填空（未提供单词的，限填一词****), ****使文章意思完整、正确，并将答案写在答题卡相应位罝。（共****10****小题，每小题****I****分）**
A dog entered a butcher's shop with a note in his mouth. The note read, “$10 of lamb chops (羊排），please.”
The butcher was very <u> 46 </u> (surprise). He took the money, put a bag of chops in the <u> 47 </u> (dog) mouth, and then he closed the shop <u> 48 </u> (quick). He followed the dog and watched him wait for a green light. Then the dog crossed the road to a bus stop. He checked the timetable and sat on the bench. When a bus arrived, the dog checked the number and got <u> 49 </u> it.
As the bus traveled out into the countryside, the dog enjoyed the scenery. After <u> 50 </u> while, he stood on his back paws (爪子）<u> 51 </u> (push) the “stop” button. Then the butcher followed <u> 52 </u> (he) off.
The dog ran up to a house and dropped his bag on the ground. He went back down the path, took a big run, and <u> 53 </u> (throw) himself against the door. No answer. He repeated the action a few times. Then a big man opened the door <u> 54 </u> started complaining about the dog and beating him.
Seeing this, the butcher ran up and shouted at the man, “What are you doing? This dog is a genius!” The man replied, “Genius? No way! Me has forgotten his key for the <u> 55 </u> (four) time this month!”
**V.****书面表达（****15****分）**
**近年来，越来越多的外籍人士融入到深圳社区生活。假设你的小区也居住着这样一个群体，社区委员会为****丰富****他们的生活，计划在下周六专为外籍人士安排一次采摘荔枝活动，请你帮忙用英文写一份书面通知，传达给他们。**
**要点：**
**1) ****下周六上午****8:00****在北门集合，乘大巴友****“****幸福农场****”****采摘荔枝，下午****4:30****返回；**
**2****)**** ****享受乡村自然美镜，感受干农活的乐趣；**
**3) ****请在下周四下午****6:00****前去办公室报名；**
**4) ****你可以带上****……****；另外****.......**
**注意：****w!w!w.!x!k!b!1.com**
**1)****字数：****80****字左右（开头和结尾已给出，不计入总字数）**
**2)****文章必须包含所有提示内容，并可作适当发挥；**
**3)****不得出现真实姓名和校名；**
**4)****条理清楚，语句迪顺，意思连贯，书写规范。**
**参考词汇****: ****荔枝****lychee   ****报名****sign one's name   ****幸福农场****Happy Farm**
<div align="center">

**NOTICE **

</div>
June 25
In order to enrich the life of the residents （居民）, the Community Union is going to organize a special activity for next Saturday.
<div align="center">

_________________________________________________________________________________________

</div>
<div align="center">

_________________________________________________________________________________________

</div>
<div align="center">

_________________________________________________________________________________________

</div>
<div align="center">

_________________________________________________________________________________________

</div>
<div align="center">

_________________________________________________________________________________________

</div>
<div align="center">

_________________________________________________________________________________________

</div>
Wish you a wonderful time!
The Community Union
## **【参考范文】**
**I.****词汇测试**
**1-5 ABBAB    6-10 CABCC    11-15 BAACA **
**II.****完形填空**
**16-20 BCAAC    21-25 BACBA **
**III.****阅读理解**
**26-30 BCDBC    31-35 BCADA    36-40 CDADC    41-45 BCADB **
**IV.****语法填空**
**46.surprised****	47.dogs****	48.quickly****	49.on****	50.a**
**51.to push****	52.him****	53.throw****	54.and****	55.fourth**
**V.****书面表达**
<div align="center">

**NOTICE**

</div>
**June 25**
**In order to enrich the life of the residents (****居民****)****，****the Community Union is going to organize a special activity for next Saturday.**
**We have organized a bus trip to Happy Farm for foreigners, where we plan to pick lychees. We will gather at the North Gate at 8 a.m. and return at 4:30 p.m. next Saturday. During the trip, we can appreciate natural scenery in the countryside and have fun in farming work. Of course, you can take an umbrella so as not to get sunburnt. Besides, your safety should be taken into consideration.**
**Sign your name in our office before 6 p.m. next Thursday if you are interested.**
**Wish you a wonderful time!**
**The Community Union**
## **2016****年广东省深圳市中考英语试卷**
**参考答案与试题解析**
**第一部分选择题（****60****分）****I.****词汇测试（****15****分）****i.****从下面每小题的****A****、****B****、****C****三个选项中选出可以替换划线部分的最佳选项，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑．**
**1****.**（2016深圳）﹣After leaving school，I think I'll miss my teachers．
﹣Me，too．All the teachers are sofriendly．If I have time．I'll come back to see them．（　　）
A．nice and kind B．good and excited
C．glad and lucky
【分析】﹣离开学校之后，我很想念我的老师们．﹣我也是．所有的老师都很友好．如果我有时间，我会回去看他们的．
【解答】答案：A 解析：本题考查的是friendly的意思．friendly adj．友好的；亲切的；融洽的，和睦的．A．友好的，善良的 B．好的，兴奋的 C．高兴的，幸运的，A和friendly的意义最接近．故选A
【点评】本题考查的是friendly的意思．friendly adj．友好的；亲切的；融洽的，和睦的
2．（1分）（2016深圳）﹣The library near our school isn't open in the evening，so we can go thereduring the day．No problem，I'll go with you tomorrow．（　　）
A．day after day B．in the daytime
C．all the time
【分析】﹣我们学校附近的那个图书馆晚上不开门，所以我们可以在白天过去．﹣没问题，我明天和你去．
【解答】答案：B
解析：本题前面说图书馆晚上不开门，所以只能白天过去，就要选择意思是白天的选项．A．day after day 日复一日 B．in the daytime 在白天 C．all the time 一直，只有B符合题意，故选B
【点评】本题考察了选项词语的意思，应当结合前文理解本题的意思，选择合适的选项．
3．（1分）（2016深圳）﹣Mr．White，could you give me someadvice？I have trouble in learning English．
﹣Sure．First，you should be confident and never give up．Second，…（　　）
A．introductions B．suggestions
C．instructions
【分析】﹣﹣怀特先生，你能给我一些建议吗？我学英语有困难．
﹣﹣当然，首先，你应当有信心，永远不要放弃．其次，…
【解答】答案：B．
首先明确选项中名词的意思，A：介绍/引进；B：建议；C：说明；  根据原句中的advice"建议"一词判断 选项B符合答案，注意suggestion是可数名词而advice是不可数名词，故答案为B．
【点评】了解每个选项的含义是做好此类题型的关键，还要从句意着手，根据句意作出解答；所以，平时的学习中要多进行积累词汇，才能很好的完成．
4．（1分）（2016深圳）﹣How did your classraisemoney for the poor old man in hospital？
﹣We organized a book fair on the playground and sold some books and CDs．（　　）
A．collect B．put up C．spend
【分析】﹣你们班是怎样给住院的贫穷老人筹集资金的？
﹣我们在操场上组织了一个书展，卖一些书和CD．
【解答】答案：A
根据各个选项的意思collect"收集；募捐"；put up"，举起，张贴"；spend"花费"结合下文意思We organized a book fair on the playground and sold some books and CDs"我们在操场上组织了一个书籍展，卖一些书和CD"可推知为住院的贫穷老人筹集、募捐资金，即raise意为"筹集"选项中collect可表达类似意思，故选A
【点评】首先根据语境，理解划线单词的意思，再细读选项中三个动词的不同含义，然后捕捉到解题线索即可选出正确答案
5．（1分）（2016深圳）﹣A little giraffe has come to Shenzhen Safari Park．Shall we go and watch it？
﹣Good idea!Let's go theretogethernext Sunday．（　　）
A．one by one B．with each other
C．in our spare time
【分析】﹣﹣一只小长颈鹿来到了深圳野生动物园，我们去看看好吗？
﹣﹣好主意！让我们下个周日一起去那里．
【解答】答案：B．
首先明确选项中短语的意思，A：依次；B：和彼此一起；C：在我们的空闲时间； 原句中用的together的意思是"一起"，由此判断选项中with each other符合句意，故答案为B．
【点评】了解每个选项的含义是做好此类题型的关键，还要从句意着手，根据句意作出解答；所以，平时的学习中要多进行积累词汇，才能很好的完成．
6．（1分）（2016深圳）﹣My mum is ill．I have to stay at home andlook afterher．
﹣I'm sorry to hear that．I hope she can get better soon．（　　）
A．look at B．look for C．care for
【分析】﹣妈妈病了．我不得不待在家里照顾她．
﹣我听到这件事很难过．我希望她能很快好起来．
【解答】答案：C
根据上文My mum is ill．I have to stay at home…"妈妈病了．我不得不待在家里…"可推知在句中look after意思是"照顾"结合各个选项的意思look at"看.."look for"寻找"；care for"照顾，照料"，故选C
【点评】首先根据语境，判断出划线动词短语的意思再细读选项中其他三个动词短语的不同含义，捕捉到解题线索即可选出正确答案
7．（1分）（2016深圳）﹣Excuse me，could you please tell me the way to the Book City？
﹣OK．Walk along this street till you reach the Children's Palace．The Book City isoppositeit．（　　）
A．on the other side of B．in front of
C．next to
【分析】﹣打扰了，你能告诉我去书城的路吗？
﹣可以．沿着这条街走一直到达少年宫．书城就在它的对面．
【解答】答案：A
根据划线单词opposite的意思为"在…的对面"，结合各个选项的意思on the other side of"在…的另一边"；in front of"在…的前面"；next to"紧挨着…"可知on the other side of的意思与opposite的意思相近，故选A
【点评】首先根据语境，正确理解划线单词的意思，细读选项中其他词的不同含义，然后通过题干中的已供信息，捕捉到解题线索即可选出正确答案
8．（1分）（2016深圳）﹣Good news!Metro Line 11will be open on June 30in our city．
﹣Great!It will make our livesmore convenient．（　　）
A．richer B．easier C．faster
【分析】﹣﹣﹣好消息！地铁11号线在我们城市6月30日开放．﹣﹣﹣好极了！它将使我们的生活更方便．
【解答】答案：B richer更富有的，easier更容易的，更方便的，faster更快的．根据句意可知：地铁11号线将使我们生活更方便．考查more convenient的同义词，即easier，故选：B．
【点评】考查同义词，理解句子的意思，结合所给选项的意思，选择合适的同义词．
9．（1分）（2016深圳）A_______is a person who is in someone's home by invitation，for a short time，as for a meal，or to stay one or more nights．（　　）
A．boss B．customer C．guest
【分析】客人就是被邀请到某人家里，呆很短的时间，吃一顿饭或呆上一个或几个晚上．
【解答】答案：C
boss老板；customer顾客；guest客人；根据a person who is in someone's home by invitation可知是客人，故选C．
【点评】本题考查名词词义辨析，先弄清所给词的词义，再根据情景选择正确答案．
10．（1分）（2016深圳）The Dragon Boat Festival is an important day in our country．On that day we can have some_______food like"Zongzi"．（　　）
A．national B．western C．traditional
【分析】端午节在我们国家是重要的一天．在那一天，我们可以吃一些像粽子这样的传统食物．
【解答】答案：C．
首先明确选项中形容词的意思，A：民族的；B：西方的；C：传统的； 根据语境和句子中出现的食物"粽子"推测句意是"端午节在我们国家是重要的一天．在那一天，我们可以吃一些像粽子这样的传统食物．"，由此判断句子中缺少"传统的"一词，故答案为C．
【点评】了解每个选项的含义是做好此类题型的关键，还要从句意着手，根据句意作出解答；所以，平时的学习中要多进行积累词汇，才能很好的完成．
11．（1分）（2016深圳）﹣Miss Wang，I'm sorry I am late because I _______ to catch the early bus．
﹣It doesn't matter．You'd better come to school earlier next time．（　　）
A．needed B．failed C．managed
【分析】﹣王小姐，很抱歉我来晚了，因为我没能赶上早班车．﹣没关系．下次你最好早点来学校．
【解答】答案：B 解析：根据答语﹣没关系．下次你最好早点来学校．可以知道这个学生今天迟到了．而迟到的原因是没有赶上早班车．A．needed 需要 B．failed 失败，没能 C．managed 设法，控制，只有B选项的意思是没能赶上车，又因为固定短语fail to do sth 的意思是没能做某事，故选B
【点评】本题考查的是在上下文的情景里填那个单词最为合适，所以应当联系上下语句来进行解答．
12．（1分）（2016深圳）﹣It is reported that many wild animals in the world are_______because of human behavior．
﹣We must do something to stop people from hunting and selling these animals．（　　）
A．in danger B．in public C．in silence
【分析】﹣据报道，因为人类的行为，世界上很多野生动物都处在危险中．﹣我们必须做些什么来阻止人们猎杀和贩卖这些动物．
【解答】答案：A 解析：根据第二句话We must do something to stop people from hunting and selling these animals﹣我们必须做些什么来阻止人们猎杀和贩卖这些动物．可知上一句中的动物都是处在危险中．A．in danger 处在危险中 B．in public 公开地，当众 C．in silence 沉默地，故选A
【点评】本题较为简单，只要理解上下语句的意思，明白选项的意思，就很好解答．
13．（1分）（2016深圳）﹣This summer a lot of athletes will go to Brazil to_______the 2016Rio Olympics．
﹣I love sports and I can't wait to enjoy the exciting moments．（　　）
A．take part in B．take pride in
C．take in
【分析】﹣这个夏天，很多运动员会去巴西参加2016年里约奥运会．﹣我爱运动，我等不及要享受这兴奋的时刻了．
【解答】答案：A 解析：根据第一句话的2016 Rio Olympics可以判断奥运会前面应当是参加，整个语句的意思为﹣这个夏天，很多运动员会去巴西参加2016年里约奥运会．所以应当选择意思是参加的词语．A．take part in 参加 B．take pride in 以…为骄傲 C．take in接受，领会，由此可见A最符合题意，故选A
【点评】本题较为简单．本题考查的是根据对句子的理解来选择合适的词语，所以要求理解语句，从而轻松解答．
14．（1分）（2016深圳）﹣What about going to see Captain America：Civil War （《美国队长3》）this Tuesday？
﹣I，d love to，but I'm very busy on weekdays．_______，I can go only on weekends．（　　）
A．For example B．Since then C．That is
【分析】﹣﹣这个周二去看电影《美国队长3》怎么样？
﹣﹣我想去，但是我在工作日很忙，换句话说，我只能在周末去．
【解答】答案：C．
首先明确选项中短语的意思，A：例如；B：从那以后；C：换句话说； 根据语境推测答语的句意是"我想去，但是我在工作日很忙，换句话说，我只能在周末去．"，由此判断句子中缺少短语：换句话说，故答案为C．
【点评】了解每个选项的含义是做好此类题型的关键，还要从句意着手，根据句意作出解答；所以，平时的学习中要多进行积累词汇，才能很好的完成．
15．（1分）（2016深圳）﹣I had a quarrel with my friend Jim yesterday，and now I_______it．
﹣Why not go and say sorry to him at once？It's never too late to mend．（　　）
A．feel ashamed of B．am proud of
C．am interested in
【分析】﹣昨天我和我的朋友Jim吵架了．现在我感到很羞愧．
﹣为什么不马上去给他道歉呢？亡羊补牢，犹未晚也．
【解答】答案：A
根据各个选项的意思feel ashamed of"对…感到很羞愧"；be proud of"对…感到自豪"be interested in"对…感兴趣"结合语境I had a quarrel with my friend Jim yesterday"昨天我和我的朋友Jim吵架了"Why not go and say sorry to him at once？"为什么不马上去给他道歉呢？"可知和好朋友吵架以及对方建议去道歉可推知现在应是感到羞愧，故选A
【点评】首先根据语境，细读选项中三个短语的不同含义，然后通过题干中的已供信息，捕捉到解题线索即可选出正确答案
**II.****完形填空（****15****分）阅读下面短文，从短文后所给的****A****、****B****、****C****三个选项中选出能填入相应空白处的最佳选项，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑．（共****1****小题，每小题****1.5****分）**
16．（15分）（2016深圳）When I was ten，my mother worked all day，so I had to take care of my younger brother．At that time，my little brother was about four years old and he （16）<u>　</u><u>B</u><u>　</u>mum all the time．
One day，after I had given him his dinner，he started crying for mum．He was so young and really needed mum．So I dressed him，put on his （17）<u>　</u><u>C</u><u>　</u>，carried him on my back and walked out．Soon he fell asleep．About half an hour later，I found that lie lost a shoe while he was （18）<u>　</u><u>A</u><u>　</u>．I took him off my back and put him （19）<u>　</u><u>A</u><u>　</u>．I knew we needed to find that shoe，for our mother couldn't afford new shoes．I had to （20）<u>　</u><u>C</u><u>　</u>to find it，so I told my brother to wait right there．A man heard it and stopped me just （21）<u>　</u><u>B</u><u>　</u>I walked off．He asked me，"You are leaving your brother here to find the shoe？What will you do if he is not here when you return？"I didn't know（22）<u>　</u><u>A</u><u>　</u>to answer that question．He continued，"It's OK if you cant find the shoe，but it is not OK to lose your （23）<u>　</u><u>C</u><u>　</u>．"Then he sent us to mum's workplace by taxi．
During my whole life I have received the （24）<u>　</u><u>B</u><u>　</u>from many strangers．I feel sorry that I can't find them and say"（25）<u>　</u><u>A</u><u>　</u>"．I do not even remember what their faces looked like，but they taught me a lesson﹣people are more important than things．
16．A．loved                       B．missed                      C．called
17．A．clothes                     B．coat                        C．shoes
18．A．sleeping                    B．running                     C．walking
19．A．down                        B．up                          C．on
20．A．get up                      B．go out                      C．go back
21．A．after                       B．before                      C．until
22．A．how                         B．what                        C．when
23．A．dad                         B．mum                         C．brother
24 A．happiness                    B kindness                     C sadness
25 A．Thank you                    B Never mind                   C You're welcome．
【分析】全文大意：
当我十岁时我妈妈整天工作，所以我不得不照顾我的弟弟．那时我的弟弟大约四岁，他总是想妈妈．一天，我给他喂完饭后，他开始哭着找妈妈，他太小了的确需要妈妈．所以我给他穿上衣服、穿上鞋子背着他出了门．很快他睡着了．大约半小时以后，我发现在他睡觉时丢了一只鞋．我把他从背上放下来．我知道我们必须找到那只鞋，因为妈妈买不起新鞋．我不得不回去找，我告诉弟弟就在那儿等着．一个人听到了，在我刚要走之前把我拦住了．他问我"你把弟弟留在这儿去找鞋子？如果你回来时他不在这儿你怎么办？"我不知道如何回答这个问题．他继续说道"如果你找不到鞋没关系，如果你把弟弟弄丢了就不好了．"然后他用出租车把我和弟弟送到妈妈工作的地方．我一生当中收到过许多陌生人的好意，我很遗憾不能找到他们说声"谢谢．"我甚至记不住他们的摸样，但他们教会我一个道理人比东西重要．
【解答】答案：
16、B        动词词义辨析         根据下文One day，after I had given him his dinner，he started crying for mum"一天，我给他喂完饭后，他开始哭着找妈妈"可推知上文At that time，my little brother was about four years old and he…mum all the time．那时我的弟弟大约四岁，他总是想妈妈，结合选项loved"爱"B．missed"想念"C．called"称呼"，故选B
17、C        名词词义辨析         结合句子So I dressed him，put on his…carried him on my back and walked out．根据空格前So I dressed him"所以我给他穿上衣服"，结合选项A．clothes"衣服"； B．coat"外套"C．shoes"鞋"可推知接下来穿鞋，故选C
18、A        动词词义辨析         根据上文soon he fell asleep．"很快他睡着了．"可推知About half an hour later，I found that lie lost a shoe while he was （18）…大约半小时以后，我发现在他睡觉时丢了一只鞋，结合选项意思A．sleeping"睡觉"B．running"跑步"C．walking"走"，可知A项意思符合故选A
19、A         副词词义辨析         结合句子I took him off my back and put him…根据空格前I took him off my back"我让他从背上下来"以及关键词put 结合选项A、down B．up C．on可知put down"放下"put up"举起"put on"穿上"可推知把他放下，故选A
20、C         动词短语辨析       结合上文意思I knew we needed to find that shoe，for our mother couldn't afford new shoes"我知道我们必须找到那只鞋，因为妈妈买不起新鞋"可推知我不得不原路返回去找鞋，结合所给选项  A．get up"起床"B．go out"出去"C．go back"回去"，可知C项意思符合，故选C
21、B        连词词义辨析        结合句子A man heard it and stopped me just…I walked off，根据空格前A man heard it and stopped me"一个人听到了把我拦住了"可推知在我走之前把我拦住了，结合选项A、after"在…之后"B．before"在…之前"C．until"直到…"可知B项意思符合，故选B．
22、A        疑问词词义辨析      结合上文一个陌生人向作者提了一些问题"你把弟弟留在这儿去找鞋子？如果你回来时他不在这儿你怎么办？"I didn't know…to answer that question． 可推知作者不知如何来回答这些问题，结合选项A．how"如何"B．what"什么"C．when"何时"可知A项意思符合，故选A
23、C          名词词义辨析       结合上文作者不得不回去找鞋，告诉弟弟就在那儿等着．可推知陌生人说It's OK if you cant find the shoe，but it is not OK to lose your…如果你找不到鞋没关系，如果你把弟弟弄丢了就不好了．故选C
24、B           名词词义辨析      根据短文讲述了一位陌生人帮助了作者和弟弟可推知During my whole life I have received the…from many strangers作者一生当中还收到过许多陌生人的好意，结合选项A．happiness"幸福"B kindness"好意"C sadness"悲伤"，可知B项意思符合，故选B
25、A           日常用语辨析       根据上文作者一生当中收到过许多陌生人的好意，可推知作者很遗憾不能找到他们说声"谢谢．"，故选A
【点评】本题考查的是一篇记叙文类完型填空．首先要通读全文，了解文章大意，紧紧抓住上下文语境所提供的信息，然后明确词意，词型，词的搭配，并注意上下连贯，合乎逻辑．结合排除法逐一选出答案．最后再通读全文，查缺补漏，完成校正
**III.****阅读理解（****30****分）阅读下面短文，从下面每小题的****A****、****B****、****C****、****D****四个选项中选出最佳选项，并在答题卡将相应的字母编号涂黑．（共****5****小题，每小题****1.5****分）**
26．（6分）（2016深圳）
	Passage 1The Shenzhen Railway Station and the Shenzhen East Railway Station will add six temporary （临时的）trains between Friday and Monday during the coming festival．The Shenzhen Railway Station will add train K6604and K6606to Guiyang，K6512to Shantung，K6552to Yongzhou and K9088to Zhangjiajie．The Shenzhen East Railway Station will add K6532to Nanxiong in Guangdong Province．
	Passage 2The 2016Shenzhen Fashion Week began at OCT Bay in Nanshan District last Friday．Over 100brands and designers （设计师）from more than 10countries put on over 60fashion shows during the week．A number of well﹣known designers attended Fashion Week．The event will end tomorrow．
	Passage 3Shenzhen became No.7in traffic jams among Chinese cities，according to a quarterly report made by amap．com and Tsinghua University．Jinan City in Shandong Province passed Beijing for the second time to become the most congested（拥堵 的）Chinese city．Beijing，Hangzhou，Harbin and Chongqing were among the top five．
	Passage 4Zhang Yuetoiig，a 12﹣year﹣old girl from Shenzhen，won the Guangxi leg （赛区） of the National Rock﹣climbing Competition，which was held on Tuesday．She is the youngest winner in the history of the rock﹣climbing competition．She started training at the age of 4．
26．According to Passage 1，how many temporary trains will the Shenzhen Railway Station add？<u>　</u><u>B</u><u>　</u>
A.1      B.5
C.6      D.7
27．From the report in Passage 3，we know that<u>　</u><u>C</u><u>　</u>became No.1in traffic jams．
A．Beijing  B．Shenzhen
C．Jinan    D．Hangzhou
28．Which of the following statements is TRUE？<u>　</u><u>D</u><u>　</u>
A．The Shenzhen Railway Station will add Train K6512to Yueyang．
B．There were more than 100fashion shows during the fashion week．
C．You seldom get caught in a traffic jam in Shenzhen．
D．Zhang Yuetong has been trained to do rock﹣climbing for 8years．
29．The four short passages probably come from<u>　</u><u>B</u><u>　</u>．
A．tales         B．newspapers
C．storybook     D．novels．
【分析】文章1．深圳火车站和深圳东站将会在星期五和星期一之间即将到来的节假日增加六趟临时火车．深圳火车站将会增加K6604和K6606到贵阳的火车，K6512到山东，K6552到永州，K9088到张家界．深圳东站将会增加K6532到广东省南雄的列车．
文章2．上周五，2016深圳时装周在南山区的华侨城欢乐海岸开始了．来自十多个国家的一百多品牌和设计师上演了六十多场服装秀．在时装周期间，许多知名的设计师参加了时装周．活动将在明天结束．
文章3．根据高德地图和清华大学的一季度报告显示，深圳成为在中国城市中交通拥挤的第七大城市．山东省的济南市第二次超过北京成为最拥堵的中国城市．北京、杭州、哈尔滨和重庆都名列前五．
文章4．在星期二举行的全国攀岩竞赛广西赛区的比赛中，来自深圳的十二岁的小姑娘张悦彤力克获得了冠军．她成为史上年龄最小的全国冠军．她在四岁时就开始练习攀岩了．
【解答】26 B．细节理解题．先明确题目要回答什么，题目问的是how many temporary trains will the Shenzhen Railway Station add？深圳火车站将会增加多少趟临时列车？关键词是 the Shenzhen Railway Station 再根据文章中The Shenzhen Railway Station will add train K6604and K6606to Guiyang，K6512to Shantung，K6552to Yongzhou and K9088to Zhangjiajie这句话可以得知答案是五趟火车，故选B．
27 C．细节理解题．先明确题干的意思，关键词是became No.1in traffic jams，在根据文中Jinan City in Shandong Province passed Beijing for the second time to become the most congested（拥堵 的）Chinese city这句话得知答案是济南市成为全国最拥堵的城市，故选C．
28．D．推理判断题．根据文章1里的信息，A．The Shenzhen Railway Station will add Train K6512to Yueyang选项的信息与文章K6512to Shantung的信息不一致，得知是错误的．根据文章2的信息，得知选项B There were more than 100fashion shows during the fashion week与文中 over 60fashion shows during the week信息不稳合，因此答案是错误的．根据文章3里的信息，得知选项C You seldom get caught in a traffic jam in Shenzhen与文中Shenzhen became No.7in traffic jams among Chinese cities不一样，所以答案是不对的．根据文章4的内容得知张悦彤四岁开始练习攀岩，十二岁参加比赛获得冠军，可以推断出练习攀岩有八年了．选项D的意思跟文章意思一样，所以D选项是正确的．故选D
29．B 推理判断题．根据以上四篇文章的内容看来题材都是不一样的，A tale是传说故事，没有一篇是此类的，所以判断A不对．B newspapers是报纸，报纸的信息量大都有不同题材的文章．所以四篇文章可能来源于报纸，B是对的．C storybook是故事书，这四篇文章均不属于故事类的，所以C不对．D novels是小说，以上内容不是小说，所以D错误．故选B．
【点评】本文共有四篇小短文构成，四篇文章都是从多方面报道在深圳发生的事情．题目涉及多道细节理解题，做题时结合原文和题目有针对性的找出相关语句进行分析，结合选项选出正确答案．推理判断题也是要在抓住关键句子的基础上合理的分析才能得出正确答案．记住别胡乱猜测，一定要做到有理有据．
30．（6分）（2016深圳）In the summer between my first year and second year in college，I was invited to be an instructor （辅导员）at a high school camp．On the first day，when we were dancing and playing games，I noticed a boy under the tree who was small and thin．His shyness made him appear weak．I walked towards him，introduced myself and invited him to join in the activities and meet some new people．He quietly replied，"No，I really don't want to do this．"I could understand that he was in a new world but I knew it wouldn't be right to force him，either．Actually，the boy didn't need a close talk but a friend．
At lunch the next day，I was leading camp songs when 1saw the boy under the tree sitting alone．I tried again with the same invitation，but he refused once again．That evening I was told the boy's name was Tommy．Then I asked the campers to pay special attention to the boy and spend time with him when they could．
The days went by and the time came when we had to leave．We held a big，warm party to celebrate the closing of the camp．All the campers shared their wonderful moments．To my surprise.1found the boy from under the tree dancing joyfully with two girls．I couldn't believe it was the same person．
In October of my second year，I received a phone call from Tommy's mother．She told me that Tommy was hit by a car and killed．I offered my deep sadness．The mother said："'Tommy mentioned you so many times．I want you to know that he went back to school and made new friends with confidence．You made a difference for Tommy during his last months．"
At that moment，I realized how easy it was to give a bit of yourself every day．You may never know how much each gesture may mean to someone else．I hope that everyone can pay attention to their own"boy under the tree"．
30．Before the writer came to the high school summer camp，he was a （n）<u>　</u><u>C</u><u>　</u>．
A．instructor
B．camper
C．student
D．reporter
31．How many times did the writer invite the boy to join in the activities？<u>　</u><u>B</u><u>　</u>
A．Once
B．Twice
C．Three times
D．Many times
32．Which is the correct order about the story？<u>　</u><u>C</u><u>　</u>
①The boy danced joyfully with two girls．
②The boy went back to school and made new friends．
③The boy refused to join in the activities．
④The boy's mother made a phone call to the writer．
A．①②③④
B．②③①④
C．③①②④
D．④③②①
33．From Paragraph 4，we can infer （推断）that Tommy's mother was very<u>　</u><u>A</u><u>　</u>to the writer．
A．thankful
B．helpful
C．faithful
D．harmful．
【分析】大一到大二的那年夏天，我被高中夏令营邀请去作为一名辅导员，第一天，当我们正在跳舞玩游戏的时候，我注意到一位在树下的一个又瘦又小的男孩．他的害羞让他看起来很弱．我走上前，介绍自己邀请他参加活动认识一些新朋友．他轻声的回答："不，我真的不想做这些．"我可以理解他在一个新的世界，但是我知道去强迫他是不对的．实际上，男孩不需要一个亲密的交谈而是一个朋友．
第二天午饭，我正在领唱，我看见那个男孩独自坐在树下．我再次邀请，但是他再次拒绝，晚上我得知他叫托米．我要求其他人多关注这个男孩，尽可能的多陪陪他．
日子很快过去我们要离开了．我们举办了一个大的热烈的晚会去庆祝野营的闭幕．所有的露营员分享了他们的精彩的瞬间．令我惊奇的是，我发现在树下的男孩和两个女孩很开心的跳舞．我不能相信这就是同一个人．
大二的十月，我收到了来自托米的妈妈的电话，他告诉我托米出了车祸去世了．我很悲伤，他的妈妈说："托米总是提起你，我想让你知道他回到学校自信的交了新朋友．在他的最后几个月你对他有很大的影响．"
那时，我突然明白了每天花一点时间或者心思在别人身上是一件多么简单的事．（但）你可能永远都不会知道这个对于其他人来说到底意味着多大的意义．我希望每个人都能关注自己的"在树下的男孩"．
【解答】30．答案：C．细节理解题．根据In the summer between my first year and second year in college，I was invited to be an instructor （辅导员）at a high school camp．可知他是一名大学生，故答案是C．
31．答案：B．细节理解题．根据I walked towards him，introduced myself and invited him to join in the activities and meet some new people和I tried again with the same invitation，but he refused once again可知他邀请了两次，故答案是B．
32．答案：C．故事排序题．根据I tried again with the same invitation，but he refused once again．邀请遭拒绝，．To my surprise.1found the boy from under the tree dancing joyfully with two girls愉快的跳舞，I want you to know that he went back to school and made new friends with confidence回学校交新朋友，I received a phone call from Tommy's mother．She told me that Tommy was hit by a car and killed．接到他妈妈的电话，故答案是C．
33．答案：A．推理判断题．根据The mother said："'Tommy mentioned you so many times．I want you to know that he went back to school and made new friends with confidence．You made a difference for Tommy during his last months．"可知他的妈妈是很感激的，故答案是A．
【点评】英语记叙文以描写叙述为主，主要描写人物、事件、地点、或过程．特点是，其主题往往潜伏在字里行间，没有直接地表白出来；文章主旨要透过体察所揭示的人物、事件来进行提炼．描写手法大多按时间跨度、空间顺序、上下顺序来展开．阅读记叙文体应采取略读和扫读的方法，快速抓住文中描写的主要内容，从整体上去把握文章的连贯性，进而大体上揣测出作者的写作意图及情感主线．阅读理解就记叙文设题大多以细节理解为主．
34．（6分）（2016深圳）Students at a primary school in Fuzhou，Hast China's Fujian Province were required to clean the school toilets to help them develop good habits．But some parents are strongly against the idea．They can't see the advantages of students doing such chores （杂亊）．They think that the school should provide students with a proper education，not the chance to be school cleaners．
In fact，parents，schools and society play an equally （同等地）important role in developing the character of students．It is good for schools to give students such tasks，because few of the students will do them at home．Their parents want them to do homework only．
In recent years，some parents willmake mountains out of molehillswhen students are asked to do some chores in schools．Some complain about the teachers if their kids get hurt in schools； some even challenge the schools'teaching methods and management．As a result，many primary schools，especially those in big cities，do not let students join in outdoor activities during breaks，fearing that they might get hurt．This is bad for the development of students'best qualities．
What the primary school in Fuzhou is doing is worth praising．Doing chores can put a sense of responsibility into students'minds and teach them the spirit of rules as well as teamwork．Also，it can make students'in﹣school experiences more meaningful．
34．A primary school in Fuzhou required the students to<u>　</u><u>D</u><u>　</u>．
A．do homework only
B．finish homework at school
C．clean the playground
D．clean the school toilets
35．Some parents think that the school should provide students with<u>　</u><u>A</u><u>　</u>．
A．a proper education
B．a chance to be cleaners
C．a chance to be teachers
D．more housework
36．The underlined phrase"make mountains out of molehills"means<u>　</u><u>C</u><u>　</u>
A．愚公移山
B．山穷水尽
C．小题大做
D．眉飞色舞
37．What is the main idea of the passage？<u>　</u><u>D</u><u>　</u>
A．Students shouldn't do any chores in school．
B．Parents require students to do some chores in school．
C．Some parents think doing some chores is harmful to students．
D．Doing some chores can develop students'good qualities．
【分析】中国的福建省福州市一所小学的学生被要求打扫学校厕所，以帮助他们养成良好的习惯．但有些家长强烈反对这个想法．他们弄不明白学生做这些杂事对学生会有什么益处．他们认为学校应该为学生提供适当的教育，不想让自己的孩子成为学校清洁工．
事实上，家长、学校和社会在发展学生个性方面扮演着一个同等重要的作用．对学校来说，给学生此类任务是对的．因为很少有学生会在家里做这些．他们的父母希望他们只做家庭作业．
近年来，当学生被要求在学校做一些事情时，一些家长总会小题大做．如果他们的孩子在学校受到伤害，他们会抱怨老师；甚至有些家长对学校的教学方法和管理提出挑战．因此，许多小学，特别是那些在大城市里的小学，课间休息时不让学生参加户外活动，担心他们可能会受伤．这对学生的最佳素质的发展是不利的．
在福州的小学所做的这些是值得表扬的．做一些杂事可以让学生的头脑中拥有责任感并能教会他们树立团队合作精神．此外，它可以使学生在学校的经历更有意义．
【解答】34．D．细节理解题．根据Students at a primary school in Fuzhou，Hast China's Fujian Province were required to clean the school toilets to help them develop good habits．可知，中国的福建省福州市一所小学的学生被要求打扫学校厕所，以帮助他们养成良好的习惯．故选D．
35．A．细节理解题．根据They think that the school should provide students with a proper education．可知，他们认为学校应该为学生提供适当的教育．故选A．
36．C． 猜测词义题．根据Some complain about the teachers if their kids get hurt in schools； some even challenge the schools'teaching methods and management．可知如果他们的孩子在学校受到伤害，他们会抱怨老师；甚至有些家长对学校的教学方法和管理提出挑战．可以看出一些在学校原本很简单的事情被学生家长渲染的很严重，所以这里的意思应该是小题大做．故选C．
37．D． 主旨大意题．根据Doing chores can put a sense of responsibility into students'minds and teach them the spirit of rules as well as teamwork．Also，it can make students'in﹣school experiences more meaningful．并联系全文内容可知做一些杂事可以让学生的头脑中拥有责任感并能教会他们树立团队合作精神．此外，它可以使学生在学校的经历更有意义．所以这篇文章的主旨大意是在学校里学生做一些力所能及的事情可以培养他们良好的品质．故选D．
【点评】本篇是一篇教育文化类阅读短文．解答时，首先理解问题，然后带着问题快速阅读短文，找出与问题有关的句子，并理解大意，最后仔细斟酌，找出答案，并核对．
38．（6分）（2016深圳）In the UK．Saturday evenings have always been a popular time for families to watch television together．One of the most popular programmegenresis the talent show，partly because people of all ages are interested in it．
Early shows，like Opportunity Knocks （1965﹣1978），required people to vote （投栗）for their favorite acts and performers，although in those days voting was done by postcard instead of by telephone，text，or over the Internet．Today，the success of television talent shows has reached a new level．Here are Ihe UK's top three TV talent shows：
The X Factor In this wonderful singing competition，performers have to face a celebrity judge panel （名人裁判组）before the public vote．Many excellent singers became popular because of it．The show is now made all over the world，from China to Colombia．
Strictly Come Dancing﹣The programme is so fantastic that it attracts many celebrities．They team up with professional （专业的）dancers and come to the dance floor to win the title of Strictly Come Dancing Champion．
Britain's Got Talent﹣In this modern﹣day version （版本）of Opportunity Knocks，the public can go and choose from many kinds of acts，from dancing dogs to ice skating．The prize is to perform for the Queen in the Royal Variety of Performance．
38．When did the show Opportunity Knocks begin？<u>　</u><u>A</u><u>　</u>
A．In 1965．
B．In 1978．
C．In 2015．
D．K is not mentioned．
39．If a person loves a skating act，he or she may go to<u>　</u><u>D</u><u>　</u>．
A．Opportunity Knocks
B．Strictly Come Dancing
C．The X Factor
D．Britain's Got Talent
40．Which of the following is NOT true according to the passage？<u>　</u><u>C</u><u>　</u>
A．The winners of Britain's Got Talent can perform for the Queen．
B．If you want your dog to have a performance，you can go to Britain's Got Talent with it．
C．Opportunity Knocks is still on television now．
D．People of all ages enjoy TV talent shows in UK．
41．The underline word"genres"in the first paragraph means<u>　</u><u>B</u><u>　</u>．
A．lists
B．types
C．choices
D．expressions．
【分析】在英国，星期六晚上一直是家庭成员在一起看电视的最受欢迎的时间．最受欢迎的节目类型之一是才艺表演，在某种程度上是因为所有年龄段的人都对它感兴趣．
早期的节目，如Opportunity Knocks （1965﹣1978），要求人们为自己喜欢的演员和表演投票，虽然在那些日子里，投票是通过明信片，而不是通过电话，文本，或在互联网上．今天，电视选秀节目的成功已经达到了一个新的水平．这里是英国三大电视选秀节目：
The X Factor In是非常棒的歌唱比赛节目．在公众投票之前演员们不得不面对一个名人裁判组．由于它，许多优秀的歌手很受观众欢迎．现在从中国到哥伦比亚，这个节目在全世界被制作．
Strictly Come Dancing﹣﹣这个节目是如此的棒以至于吸引了许多名人．他们有专业的团队与舞蹈演员，来到舞池，赢得Strictly Come Dancing的头衔．
Britain's Got Talent﹣﹣Opportunity Knocks节目的现代版．公众可以从多种多样的表演中去选择，从跳舞的狗到溜冰．奖品是为女王在皇家做各种各样的表演．
【解答】38．A． 细节理解题 根据Early shows，like Opportunity Knocks （1965﹣1978）．可知括号内就是这个节目的起始时间，从这里可以看出这个节目是从1965年开始的，故选A．
39．D．细节理解题 根据Britain's Got Talent﹣In this modern﹣day version （版本）of Opportunity Knocks，the public can go and choose from many kinds of acts，from dancing dogs to ice skating．可知Britain's Got Talent﹣﹣Opportunity Knocks节目的现代版．公众可以从多种各样的表演中去选择，从跳舞狗到溜冰；故选D．
40．C．推理判断题． 根据Britain's Got Talent﹣In this modern﹣day version （版本）of Opportunity Knocks，可知Britain's Got Talent是Opportunity Knocks节目的现代版．所以Opportunity Knocks现在已经停办了．故选C．
41．B． 词意猜测题 根据One of the most popular programme genres  is the talent show．最受欢迎的节目…之一是才艺表演，划线单词的意思在这里应该是类型的意思，即划线单词的意思相当于types，指节目类型．故选B．
【点评】本篇是一篇社会文化类阅读短文．解答时，要注意培养自己快速阅读的习惯．切不可在个别难懂的词句上用时过多，只要全篇理解了，个别难懂的词句可以根据上下文和构词法去猜测，去推断，进而选择出正确答案．
42．（6分）（2016深圳）All over the world the need for more laptops and computers increases each year．Networks have been part of our life．Probably everyone with a portable device （移动设备）has once logged on to a public WiFi network without paying for it，while they are having a coffee，on a train，in a shopping mall or at a hotel．However，is this kind of public WiFi network safe？
Some networks are better protected than others because encryption （加密）methods are used．Therefore，they are safer than others．But a survey in 2015 showed that more than 950 million records were not protected，including addresses，emails，birth dates，phone numbers，passwords and so on．These open WiFi networks are really not safe，because it is very easy for hackers （黑客） to break into the operating system and get people's private information．
Most smartphones and laptops，by themselves，search and connect to WiFi networks．They usually prefer a network with a connection that has been used before．Hackers'devices are able to record these searches and look like the trusted WiFi networks．When these smartphones and laptops log on to the networks which are not real，hackers can easily steal their private information．
So next time，when we want to use our laptops or our smartphones in public places which offer free WiFi networks，please think it twice or take safe measures before using them．
42．Why do people like to go log on to a public WiFi network？<u>　</u><u>C</u><u>　</u>
A．Because it can provide useful information．
B．Because the owner of the network is polite．
C．Because it is free．
D．Because it is safe．
43．We can learn from the passage that<u>　</u><u>A</u><u>　</u>
A．not all the public WiFi networks are safe
B．none of the public WiFi networks is safe
C．in 2015more than 950million records were protected
D．there is no way to protect our private information
44．Hackers would probably get the following EXCEPT<u>　</u><u>D</u><u>　</u>when we connect our laptops or smartphones to a public WiFi network．
A．our birth dates
B．our passwords
C．our phone numbers
D．our smartphones
45．Which of the following can be the best title of this passage？<u>　</u><u>B</u><u>　</u>
A．Don't Use Public WiFi Networks
B．Why the Public WiFi Networks a Possible Danger
C．We Needn't Protect Our Private Information
D．Why Hackers Break into the Operating System．
【分析】本文讲述了公共wifi网络的安全问题．越来越多的人使用移动设备，因此他们可以随时随地地使用，随时连接上公共wifi，然而网络安全也需重视．黑客能够得知用户经常连接的网点，用相似的名称"伪装"成用户经常连接的网络，盗取用户信息﹣﹣包括地址、邮箱、生日、电话号码、密码等，损害用户的利益．
【解答】CADB
42．C   推理判断题．由第一段句子Probably everyone with a portable device （移动设备）has once logged on to a public WiFi network without paying for it，中的without paying for it可以推测出原因﹣﹣因为免费．因此答案为C．
43．A  推理判断题．B项可以从第二段的第一句和第二句话Some networks are better protected than others because encryption （加密）methods are used及Therefore，they are safer than others得出，有一些是安全的，因为加密了．C项也可从句子But a survey in 2015 showed that more than 950 million records were not protected，得知是错误的，是没有被保护，而不是"被保护了"；D项可从第二段第一句了解保护措施Some networks are better protected than others because encryption （加密）methods are used，加密可以保护网络安全．故只有A的说法正确．故选A
44．D 细节理解题．根据题目要求可知，本题要求解答黑客可以获取哪些信息，这个内容可以在原文第二段找到，…including addresses，emails，birth dales，phone numbers，passwords and so on．D项不符合，D项不属于信息的范畴．故选D
45．B  内容归纳题．概括本文内容可知，全文主要讲的是公共网络的安全问题，同义的句子为B﹣﹣为什么公共wifi可能很危险？因此答案为B．
【点评】解答此类题，需根据题意，采取不同的解答技巧，比如，如果是"细节题"，就着重在文中搜寻相关的细节，如果是"推理题"，便要联系相关语句进行推理判断．只有掌握了相关的答题技巧，才能在作答中节约时间，并且准确作答．
**第二部分非选择题（****25****分）****IV.****语法填空（****10****分）阅读下面短文，根据文章大意用所给单词的适当形式填空（未提供单词的，限填一词），使文章意思完整、正确，并将答案写在答题卡相应位罝．（共****1****小题，每小题****I****分）**
46．（10分）（2016深圳）A dog entered a butcher's shop with a note in his mouth．The note read，"﹩10of lamb chops （羊排），please．"
The butcher was very （46）<u>　</u><u>surprised</u><u>　</u>（surprise）．He took the money，put a bag of chops in the（47）<u>　</u><u>dog's</u><u>　</u>（dog） mouth，and then he closed the shop （48）<u>　</u><u>quickly</u><u>　</u>（quick）．He followed the dog and watched him wait for a green light．Then the dog crossed the road to a bus stop．He checked the timetable and sat on the bench．When a bus arrived，the dog checked the number and got （49）<u>　</u><u>on</u><u>　</u>it．
As the bus traveled out into the countryside，the dog enjoyed the scenery．After （50）<u>　</u><u>a</u><u>　</u>while，he stood on his back paws （爪子）（51）<u>　</u><u>to push</u><u>　</u>（push） the"stop"button．Then the butcher followed （52）<u>　</u><u>him</u><u>　</u>（he） off．
The dog ran up to a house and dropped his bag on the ground．He went back down the path，took a big run，and （53）<u>　</u><u>threw</u><u>　</u>（throw） himself against the door．No answer．He repeated the action a few times．Then a big man opened the door （54）<u>　</u><u>and</u><u>　</u>started complaining about the dog and beating him．
Seeing this，the butcher ran up and shouted at the man，"What are you doing？This dog is a genius!"The man replied，"Genius？No way!He has forgotten his key for the （55）<u>　</u><u>fourth</u><u>　</u>（four） time this month!"
【分析】全文大意：
一只狗嘴里叼着一张纸条进了一家肉店．纸条上写着：10美元的羊排．屠夫非常惊讶．他拿走钱，把一袋羊排放在狗的嘴里，迅速地关上店门．他跟着这只狗，看见他在等绿灯，然后穿过马路到了一个公交车站．这只狗看了看时刻表最后坐在长凳上．当一辆公交车到了时，他看了一下车号，然后上了车．当车驶入乡下时，这只狗欣赏沿途的风景．过了一会儿，他站了起来，按响了"下车"按钮．屠夫也跟着他下了车．这只狗跑到一座房子前，把袋子放在地上，它回到路上，加速跑起来，用身体撞击门．开始没有回应．他重复了好几次．后来一个大个子男人打开了门开始抱怨并打只狗．看到这一幕，屠夫跑上前大声说道"你干什么？这只狗是个天才．"这个男人重复道"天才？不可能．这是他一个月内第四次忘带钥匙了．"
【解答】答案：
46．surprised        考查形容词用法      根据The butcher was very…（surprise）通过分析句子结构可知该处填入形容词作表语，结合所给词surprise以及该句子的主语是The butcher 即人作主语故用带ed的形容词意为"使某人…"，故填surprised
47．dog's            考查名词所有格     根据He took the money，put a bag of chops in the…（dog） mouth通过分析句子结构可知该处在句中作定语修饰mouth表达一种所有关系，结合所给词为dog，故用其名词所有格形式dog's即"狗的"故填dog's
48．quickly           考查副词           根据 then he closed the shop…（quick）．通过分析句子结构可知该处填入副词作状语，结合所给词quick为形容词其副词形式为quickly，故填quickly
49．on                考查固定短语        根据When a bus arrived，the dog checked the number and got…it．可知当一辆公交车到了时，这只狗看了一下车号，可推知然后上车结合空格前关键词got可知上车的英文表达为get on，即填入所缺的介词on即可，故填on
50．a                 考查固定短语        根据After…while，he stood on his back paws，根据空格前的after 及后面的while可知"过了一会儿"的英文表达为after a while，即填入所缺的不定冠词a 即可，故填a
51．to push          考查不定式          根据After a while，he stood on his back paws （爪子）…（push） the"stop"button通过分析句子结构可知该空处在句中作目的状语，结合所给词为动词push，故用其动词不定式形式在句中作目的状语，故填to push
52．him              考查人称代词         根据Then the butcher followed…（he） off通过分析句子结构可知该空处在句中作宾语，结合所给词为人称代词主格he，故用其宾格形式，故填him
53．threw             考查动词时态        根据句子He went back down the path，took a big run，and…（throw） himself against the door．的结构可知所给词throw在句中与went、took为并列谓语，故时态一致，即都使用一般过去时态，故填入throw的过去式threw即可，故填threw
54．and              考查连词             根据句子Then a big man opened the door…started complaining about the dog and beating him．通过观察句子结构可知句中opened和started作并列谓语表达一种并列意思，故用表达并列关系的连词and连接，故填and
55．fourth           考查序数词          根据句子He has forgotten his key for…（four） time this month!通过观察句子结构可知该空处后接单数名词time，结合句意及所给词为基数词four，故填入序数词在句中作定语表达顺序即"第四次"，故填fourth
【点评】此题是根据短文内容，用所给词的正确形式填空或填入恰当的词考查学生对文章的理解能力和语法，词汇与句法的综合运用能力．做题时先把文章浏览一遍知道大体意思．再细读文章，在此过程中一定要做到结合上下文，结合句意，结合关键词，结合选项综合判断后写出答案．一定要注意词语的各种变化形式，这点一定要注意，做题时一定要细心．做完后根据答案复读完成校正．
**V.****书面表达（****15****分）**
56．（15分）（2016深圳）近年来，越来越多的外籍人士融入到深圳社区生活．假设你的小区也居住着这样一个群体，社区委员会为丰南他们的生活，计划在下周六专为外籍人士安排一次采摘荔枝活动，请你帮忙用英文写一份书面通知，传达给他们．
要点：
1）下周六上午8：00在北门集合，乘大巴友"幸福农场"采摘荔枝，下午4：30返回；
2）享受乡村自然美镜，感受干农活的乐趣；
3）请在下周四下午6：00前去办公室报名；
4）你可以带上…；另外…
注意：
1）字数：80字左右（开头和结尾已给出，不计入总字数）
2）文章必须包含所有提示内容，并可作适当发挥；
3）不得出现真实姓名和校名；
4）条理清楚，语句迪顺，意思连贯，书写规范．
参考词汇：荔枝lychee   报名sign one's name   幸福农场Happy Farm
NOTICE
June 25
In order to enrich the life of the residents （居民），the Community Union is going to organize a special activity for next Saturday．
．
Wish you a wonderful time!
The Community Union．
【分析】这是一篇提纲作文．内容是写一份书面通知，传达给社区的人们计划在下周六专为外籍人士安排的一次采摘荔枝活动．注意通知的格式．时态主要为一般现在时．人称主要为第一、二人称．
写作思路：考生需要首先审清主题，围绕主题展开作文．
其次考生可从以下几个方面展开作文，即本文的写作要点：
1）下周六上午8：00在北门集合，乘大巴"幸福农场"采摘荔枝，下午4：30返回；
2）享受乡村自然美镜，感受干农活的乐趣；
3）请在下周四下午6：00前去办公室报名；
4）你可以带上…；另外…
常用到的重点短语：
in order to 为了
have fun 玩的开心
so as to 为了…
of course 当然
【高分句型】
1．We have organized a bus trip to Happy Farm for foreigners，where we plan to pick lychees．
where作为关系词的非限制性定语从句，修饰前面的Happy Farm．
2．Of course，you can take an umbrella so as not to get sunburnt．
so as to 为了…表目的，作为目的状语．
3．Sign your name in our office before 6 p．m．next Thursday if you are interested．
if引导的条件状语从句．主句是祈使句，从句用一般现在时．
【解答】NOTICE
June 25
In order to enrich the life of the residents （居民），the Community Union is going to organize a special activity for next Saturday．
We have organized a bus trip to Happy Farm for foreigners，where we plan to pick lychees．【高分句型】We will gather at the North Gate at 8 a．m．and return at 4：30 p．m．next Saturday．（时间地点和活动内容）During the trip，we can appreciate natural scenery in the countryside and have fun in farming work．（活动的意义）Of course，you can take an umbrella so as not to get sunburnt．【高分句型】Besides，your safety should be taken into consideration．（建议）
Sign your name in our office before 6 p．m．next Thursday if you are interested．【高分句型】（报名时间）
Wish you a wonderful time!
【点评】提纲作文是一项能够充分考查学生语言综合运用能力的题型．主要考查学生运用已学的语言基础知识和已掌握的英语写作技能准确表达客观事实，阐述个人观点，进行思想交流的书面表达能力．为了提高书面表达水平，平时应加强阅读，应背诵一些句型、段落、甚至短文．只要读得多，背得多，就能出口成章，下笔成文．此外，还要了解英文写作方面的基础知识，掌握常用文体的写作方法．其实，用英文写信，记日记等都是学生力所能及且行之有效的练习写作的好方法．
