<div align="center">

**2017****年深圳市中考英语试卷真题**

</div>
**I. ****选择填空。（****15****分）**
**I.****从下面每小题的****A****、****B****、****C****三个选项中选出可以替换划线部分的最佳选项。（共****8****小题，每小题****1****分，计****8****分）**
1. Ancient Greeks used a<u> giant</u> wooden horse to capture the city of Troy.
A. huge				B. wonderful				C. wide
2. —I <u>worked as</u> a volunteer in the school library last Friday afternoon.
   —Really? Can I go with you next time?
A. had				B. made					C. was
3. —I have <u>difficulty</u> in learning Chinese. Could you give me some help?
   —Sure. Reading a lot will help you improve your Chinese.
A. questions			B. problems				C. tasks
4. —China’s first large passenger plane C919 flew successfully on March 5.
   —Yes. What’s more, it was built<u> on our own</u> in Shanghai.
   A. with some help		B. from our friends			C. by ourselves
5. —Hi, Bob! What’s <u>going on</u> over there?
—Oh, Tom and Dick are playing chess, with a crowd of students watching them.
happening			B. appearing				C. working
6. —Ding Ning <u>beat</u> Miu Hirano, a Japanese player, in the 2017 World Table Tennis Championship entering the final.
   —We were all excited at the good news.
fought with			B. won against				C. lost by
7. —Did you see the movie *Dangal* last week?
   —No. I<u> hardly</u> go to the cinema these days. I am busy writing a book report.
often				B. always					C. seldom
8. —In Shenzhen the city center will be<u> connected to</u> all the districts by metro in several years.
—Great, I’m proud of living in Shenzhen.
**ii. ****从下面每小题的****A****、****B****、****C****三个选项中选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项（共７题，每小题１分，计７分）**
9. You are beautiful today. Your shoes color<u>       </u>your dress color.
  A. catches				B. matches 				C. meets
10.<u>       </u> is the quality to be brave when you are facing difficulties.
  A. Courage				B. Pride				C. Humor
11. —It’s going to rain. Remember to<u>       </u>your umbrella with you when you go to school, dear.
—All right, Mum. Bye!
A. take				B. buy				C. put
12. —The scenery of Shenzhen is amazing,<u>        </u> in spring.
    —I think so. You can see green trees and flowers everywhere.
Exactly			B. especially			C. actually
13. —My daughter will<u>        </u>for America to study next month.
—You’ll miss her very much.
set down			B. set off				C. set up
14. —Anne, the information you gave me is really<u>         </u>. Thank you very much.
—Not at all. I’m happy I can help you.
A. useless			B. ordinary			C. valuable
15. —She got full marks in the math exam.
—Her parents were<u>         </u>her.
satisfied with		B. tired of			C. worried about
**II. ****完型填空。（每空****1.5****分，共****15****分）**
	An old man lived with his little grandson. Every day the old man got up early to read books. His grandson wanted to be just like him and tried to copy him in every <u>   </u>16<u>   </u> he could.
	One day the grandson asked, “Grandpa, I try to read that book just like you do. But I don’t understand it and I always forget <u>   </u>17<u>   </u> I close the book. What good does <u>   </u>18<u>   </u>  do?”
	The grandfather quietly turned from putting <u>   </u>19<u>   </u> in the stove and replied, “Take this coal basket down to the river and bring me back a basket of water.
	 The boy did as his grandpa said, but all the water leaked(漏) out before he got back home. The grandfather laughed and said, “You’ll have to walk faster next time.”
	The next time the boy ran faster, but the basket was still empty before he <u>   </u>20<u>   </u> home. The boy said, “See, Grandpa, it’s <u>   2</u>1<u>   </u> to finish the task!”
	“Is it no use?” the old man said. “<u>   </u>22<u>   </u> the basket.”
	The boy looked at the basket and for the first time realized that the basket was <u>   </u>23<u>   </u>. Instead of a dirty old coal basket, it was <u>   </u>24<u>   </u> inside and out.
	“My child, that’s what happens when you read books. You might not understand or remember everything, but the <u>   </u>25<u>   </u> will change you inside and outside. That is the work of reading in our lives.”
(    ) 16. A. way 				B. book 				C. table
(    ) 17. A. until 				B. when				C. since
(    ) 18. A. reading the book 	B. getting up early 		C. sitting at the desk
(    ) 19. A. water 			B. book 				C. coal
(    ) 20. A. returned 			B. read 				C. bought
(    ) 21. A. difficult 			B. different 			C. impossible
(    ) 22. A. Look for 			B. Look at 			C. Look after
(    ) 23. A. new 				B. different 			C. wonderful
(    ) 24. A. broken 			B. clean 				C. complete
(    ) 25. A. words			B. water 				C. wood
**III. ****阅读理解。（每题****1.5****分，共****30****分）**
**A**
**What's better for learning, hands-on projects or tests?**
We did a survey about two days to study in our school. 73% of the students prefer hands-on(动手的) projects while the rest think tests are better for learning. Here are four students'ideas。
| Hands-on projects require time and hard work to complete. It teaches kids not to put things off. Some kids might get bored and be less interested in studying for a test. Studying also doesn’t prepare you as much for the future, since jobs at times will have more difficult tasks than simply studying for a test. Also, completing a project is good for spending time with your friends or family. **——Bruno** |
| --- |
| With a hands-on project you can be creative while you learn. It's also a lot more fun than sitting at a desk with flash cards, memorizing information they forget about after the test. Besides, with a hands-on project you can learn more than you expected, like problem solving, creativity, and different ways of thinking.**——David** |
| When people study, they remember what was in the book. If they know they have a test, they will most likely take notes on all the important information to help them with the test, so they will learn it better.**——Alice** |
| I think kids learn better studying for tests. If you actually sit and study what you are supposed to learn, you will remember it. hands-on projects might end up making a kid feel stressed if they are trying to finish on time, and if you are stressed, you might not learn as much. **——Matt** |

(    ) 26. According to the survey, how many students like studying for tests better?
A.73%.                B.50%.              C.27%.             D.100%.
(    ) 27. What does Bruno think of hands-on projects?
A. They may be less interesting and more difficult.
B. They can make children learn to put off tasks.
C. They are much easier than studying for tests.
D. They may help children to improve friendship.
(    ) 28. How many reasons does David give why he prefers hands-on projects?
A. Two.              B. Three.              C. Four.              D. Five.
(    )29. Which sentence describes Matt and Alice's point of view(观点 )of studying for tests?
A．Students will focus on studying for tests better.
B. Students will be more creative while studying.
C. Students will be more active in and after class.
D. Students will forget the information after tests.
**B**
    (Shenzhen, Wednesday, 31 May)——Shenzhen traffic police fined  4,251 private cars 300 yuan each because they used the bus lane(公交车道) during the three-day Dragon Boat Festival holiday. The bus lane on the Luosha Road and Huishen Coastal Expressway(惠深沿海高速) to Dapeng was put into use on Sunday, the first day of the holiday.
    The bus lane only allows buses between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. during holidays and weekends.
    To make sure traffic on the bus lane moved smoothly, police officers were sent to work along the road using cameras and drones(无人机) to get information and photos of the vehicles(车辆) that entered the bus lane against the traffic rules.
    Information from police shows the bus lane has reduced the time it takes buses to get to the east of the city. A tourist took a holiday bus to Dapeng at noon from the Luohu Stadium Stop, while his friend drove a private car. The bus arrived at 12:48 p.m. The private car arrived at 2: 05 p.m.
    According to police, the bus lane can also be used as the rescue passage for accidents that happen in the tunnels.
(    ) 30. According to the news, when did the Dragon Boat Festival holiday begin?
A. On 27 May.              		B. On 28 May.
C. On 29 May              		D. On 30 May.
(    ) 31. When can a private car use the bus lane during the holidays and weekends?
A. From 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.                  	B. From 9 p.m. to 9 a.m.
C. On Saturday or Sunday.              		D. When there is an accident in the tunnel
(    ) 32. How many minutes earlier did the bus arrive at Dapeng than the private car?
A. About 48 minutes              B. Less than 60 minutes
C. About 77 minutes              D. More than 120 minutes
(    ) 33. Which of the following is the main idea of this news report?
A. Police fined 4, 251 private cars for using the bus lane during the holiday.
B. Police said it was easier to go to Dapeng by bus than by car during the holiday.
C. Police used cameras and drones to fine private cars if they entered the bus lane.
D. Police used the bus lane and the tunnels for rescue in accidents during the holiday.
**  C**
    Liang Xianghua, a 22-year-old girl from Guangxi University, has been well-known in China for her sand painting since her first work was used by CCTV.
    "Sand paintings really attracted me while I was watching a video **performance**, I was surprised by how this artwork melted people's heart in minutes, "said Liang. "I fell in love with the way the sand pictures, music and the light combined (融合) with each other to make a flow of emotion(情感). You can express things freely.”
    In order to master the skills, Liang practised for several hours every day. She said that she couldn't even do the first step well of throwing sand onto the glass. But she didn' t give up.
    After finding success with her first show, she was invited to do many performances. This made her quite tired. She decided to give a stop and focus on her study. But an invitation from Malaysia changed her mind just as **she was about to wash the sand from her hands**. This spring, she was invited by a Malaysia middle school to give a performance. Liang didn' t want to do a live show, but agreed to do a video for the school showing its development over the years.
    She received praise for her work and the performance was described as an eye-opener for the students. This made her wonder if her art would be more meaningful if she made it for the poor students.
    As a volunteer this time, she plans to take part in a summer programme offering help to pupils in a mountain area, and give the most wonderful show in her life.
(    ) 34. Which of the following helps you understand the underlined word "**performance**"?
A. show              B. painting              C. success              D. invitation
(    ) 35. Why did Liang fall in love with sand painting?
A. Because she wanted to be famous.
B. Because she wanted to be a volunteer.
C. Because sand paintings melted her heart.
D Because she loved watching video programmes.
(    ) 36. What is the implied  (隐含)  meaning of the underlined sentence "...she... hands, "in  Paragraph 4 ?
A. It means Liang decided to wash the sand off her sands.
B. It means Liang wanted to make a new sand painting.
C. It means Liang wanted to do voluntary work in summer.
D. It means Liang decided to give up doing sand paintings.
(    ) 37. What's the writer's purpose of writing the third paragraph?
A. To tell us that Liang is good at making sand pictures.
B. To explain why Liang fell in love with sand pictures.
C. To show that Liangs success comes from hard work.
D. To express that Liang enjoys throwing sand onto the glass.
**D**
| Dear daughters , Most parents tell their children, "You can be anything you want when you grow up. "I feel the same and I say this often. But I also want you to understand that the dream itself comes from hard work, some good luck and good timing. Girls, here are some words of wisdom (智慧) as you make your way in the world, from your mom. **Be open-minded to changing your path (even several times) along the way. ** In high school, I wanted to be an official. I left my hometown and entered a college in Washington D. C.  There, I discovered that I’m creative,  a strong leader and great at marketing. As a result, I moved on to the head of a national organization. Becoming a mother while in that job opened my mind to starting a business. Now I run a successful company I started up all by myself. Work out what you are good at and what you are interested in. Keep an open mind and change what you are doing based on what you are learning about yourself. **Failure is very important to your success ** I won't tell you to feel good about failure. Failure can be heartbreaking. But I will tell you that every failure I've had along the way has certainly made me better . Failing the big math exam in high school and going to summer school were embarrassing. I finally passed, and I've never failed an exam again. I learned from that experience to ask for help. Now, I ask for help in business all the time. I'm proud to be a role model to you as a mom and a company owner. I hope I can help you believe that you can be anything you want and you can have everything on your list. I will be very glad to watch your lives unfold before my eyes Love, Your mom |
| --- |

(    ) 38. According to the letter, What should the daughters think about if they want to change
what they are doing?
A. Advantages and interest                B. Wisdom and dreams.
C. Good luck and timing                     D. Experience and help.
(    ) 39. According to the mother, how should her daughters deal with failure?
A.They should feel good about failure.                B. They should be sad about failure.
C. They should learn from failure.                         D. They should avoid any failure.
(    ) 40. Which of the following best describes the mother?
A.Worried but wise.                         B. Unlucky and unsuccessful.
C. open-minded but cold.                D. Kind and successful.
(    ) 41. what's the letter mainly about?
A. Mom and daughters.                   B. Moms advice to daughters.
C. Being open-minded.                    D. Failure is the mother of success.
**E**
    Recently, China announced it had achieved success in drilling fire ice or methane hydrate(天然气水合物,即可燃冰), from the seabed in the Shenhu area of the South China Sea. It produces high amount of energy when it is burned, leaving nothing but dioxide and water.
    Many countries, including the United States and Japan, have long been doing research on methane hydrate, but taking it from bottom of the sea has been a common problem they are facing. According to reports, China succeeded in drilling methane hydrate for a number of days continuously and got an average of over 16,000 m³  daily. It is believed to be a big breakthrough.
    Scientists say there is about 21, 000 trillion (万亿 ) m³  of methane hydrate in the world. If we can use it, it can meet the world's energy need for 1, 000 years. However, it is too early to say a new energy source  (来源 ) has been found because we are still facing two main challenges ——environmental risk and economic (经济的) cost. When methane hydrate is taken from the seabed, it may go into the air easily. That s very bad for the environment because methane is one of the worst greenhouse gases. Besides, drilling methane hydrate is very expensive as well.
    However, Chinas technology breakthrough is very important because it shows the way researchers across the world should take. It also raises hopes that one day we can drill methane hydrate as a source of energy.
(    ) 42. What is Paragraph I mainly about?
A. China is producing a large amount of energy from fire ice
B. China is making good use of fire ice throughout the country.
C. China has already succeeded in drilling fire ice from the seabed.
D. China has turned fire ice from the South China Sea into daily energy.
(    ) 43. What's the common problem many countries are facing when doing research on fire ice?
A. How to take it out from the bottom of the sea.
B. How to turn it into useful energy at the lowest cost.
C. How to make it cheap on the future energy market.
D. How to change it into a traditional form of energy.
(    ) 44. Why is it too early to say a new energy source has been found?
A. Because it's too difficult to find the place where the fire ice lies and how to drill it.
B. Because it's not easy for fire ice to go into the air and be good for the environment.
C. Because it’s quite impossible for fire ice to take the place of other sources of energy.
D. Because it's expensive to drill fire ice and it may do great harm to the environment.
(    ) 45. Where can we probably read the article?
A. In a storybook.       			B. In a newspaper.
C. In a travel guide.      			D. In an advertisement.
**语法填空（每空****1****分，共****10****分）**
		In a small house outside London lives an old man. People often see him look 46.<u>        </u> his flowers in his garden all the time.
		One day a young painter 47.<u>        </u> (go) by the old man’s garden. He looked at the nice garden and the special room, picturing how happy he would be if he lived in such a 48.<u>        </u> (beauty) place. Suddenly he found the old gardener was 49.<u>        </u> (terrible) blind. Shocked, he walked to the old man and asked, “Why are you taking care of flowers every day which you can’t see in fact” The blind gardener smiled, “I can tell you
 four reasons. First, I was 50.<u>        </u> gardener when I was young and I really love this job. Second, although I can’t see these flowers, I can touch them. Third, I can smell the sweetness of them. At last, it’s you.”
		“Me?” But you don’t know me” answered the painter, still puzzled.
	“Yes, it’s true that I don’t know you. 51.<u>        </u> I know flowers are gifts which everyone loves. And the beauty of my garden will get many people into a good mood.” answered the old man.
		The words of the gardener warm me with 52.<u>        </u> (please). He looked after the flowers 53.<u>        </u>
(make) others enjoy the warm sunshine of in spring. He can’t see the beautiful flowers he planted, just like
Beethoven, who can’t hear his wonderful music 54.<u>        </u>.
		The old man is alone but not lonely. All of his flowers are his friends and neighbors. They 55.<u>       </u> (grow) in his heart. I believe that he can hear the voice of them.
**V****．写作（****15****分）**
假设你是李华，三年的初中生活即将过去，你的外籍同学Sam在英语学习上帮助了你。在即将毕业之际，请你在给Sam的毕业纪念册上用英文写一段留言。要求包括以下内容要点：
1.你在英语学习上曾遇到的困难；
2. Sam 对你的帮助、建议及措施：（1）多听多读；
（2）多看英语电影，多唱英文歌曲；
（3）……（自由发挥，不少于一项内容）；
3. 你的收获及对Sam的感谢和祝福。
Dear Sam,
How time flies! It’s time for us to say goodbye.
<u>                                                                               </u>
<u>                                                                               </u>
<u>                                                                               </u>
<u>                                                                               </u>
<u>                                                                               </u>
<u>                                                                           </u>
											 Yours sincerely,
                                                                     Li Hua
