<div align="center">

**2017****年深圳市中考英语试卷真题**

</div>
**I. ****选择填空。（****15****分）**
**I.****从下面每小题的****A****、****B****、****C****三个选项中选出可以替换划线部分的最佳选项。（共****8****小题，每小题****1****分，计****8****分）**
1. Ancient Greeks used a<u> giant</u> wooden horse to capture the city of Troy.
A. huge				B. wonderful				C. wide
2. —I <u>worked as</u> a volunteer in the school library last Friday afternoon.
   —Really? Can I go with you next time?
A. had				B. made					C. was
3. —I have <u>difficulty</u> in learning Chinese. Could you give me some help?
   —Sure. Reading a lot will help you improve your Chinese.
A. questions			B. problems				C. tasks
4. —China’s first large passenger plane C919 flew successfully on March 5.
   —Yes. What’s more, it was built<u> on our own</u> in Shanghai.
   A. with some help		B. from our friends			C. by ourselves
5. —Hi, Bob! What’s <u>going on</u> over there?
—Oh, Tom and Dick are playing chess, with a crowd of students watching them.
happening			B. appearing				C. working
6. —Ding Ning <u>beat</u> Miu Hirano, a Japanese player, in the 2017 World Table Tennis Championship entering the final.
   —We were all excited at the good news.
fought with			B. won against				C. lost by
7. —Did you see the movie *Dangal* last week?
   —No. I<u> hardly</u> go to the cinema these days. I am busy writing a book report.
often				B. always					C. seldom
8. —In Shenzhen the city center will be<u> connected to</u> all the districts by metro in several years.
—Great, I’m proud of living in Shenzhen.
**ii. ****从下面每小题的****A****、****B****、****C****三个选项中选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项（共７题，每小题１分，计７分）**
9. You are beautiful today. Your shoes color<u>       </u>your dress color.
  A. catches				B. matches 				C. meets
10.<u>       </u> is the quality to be brave when you are facing difficulties.
  A. Courage				B. Pride				C. Humor
11. —It’s going to rain. Remember to<u>       </u>your umbrella with you when you go to school, dear.
—All right, Mum. Bye!
A. take				B. buy				C. put
12. —The scenery of Shenzhen is amazing,<u>        </u> in spring.
    —I think so. You can see green trees and flowers everywhere.
Exactly			B. especially			C. actually
13. —My daughter will<u>        </u>for America to study next month.
—You’ll miss her very much.
set down			B. set off				C. set up
14. —Anne, the information you gave me is really<u>         </u>. Thank you very much.
—Not at all. I’m happy I can help you.
A. useless			B. ordinary			C. valuable
15. —She got full marks in the math exam.
—Her parents were<u>         </u>her.
satisfied with		B. tired of			C. worried about
**II. ****完型填空。（每空****1.5****分，共****15****分）**
	An old man lived with his little grandson. Every day the old man got up early to read books. His grandson wanted to be just like him and tried to copy him in every <u>   </u>16<u>   </u> he could.
	One day the grandson asked, “Grandpa, I try to read that book just like you do. But I don’t understand it and I always forget <u>   </u>17<u>   </u> I close the book. What good does <u>   </u>18<u>   </u>  do?”
	The grandfather quietly turned from putting <u>   </u>19<u>   </u> in the stove and replied, “Take this coal basket down to the river and bring me back a basket of water.
	 The boy did as his grandpa said, but all the water leaked(漏) out before he got back home. The grandfather laughed and said, “You’ll have to walk faster next time.”
	The next time the boy ran faster, but the basket was still empty before he <u>   </u>20<u>   </u> home. The boy said, “See, Grandpa, it’s <u>   2</u>1<u>   </u> to finish the task!”
	“Is it no use?” the old man said. “<u>   </u>22<u>   </u> the basket.”
	The boy looked at the basket and for the first time realized that the basket was <u>   </u>23<u>   </u>. Instead of a dirty old coal basket, it was <u>   </u>24<u>   </u> inside and out.
	“My child, that’s what happens when you read books. You might not understand or remember everything, but the <u>   </u>25<u>   </u> will change you inside and outside. That is the work of reading in our lives.”
(    ) 16. A. way 				B. book 				C. table
(    ) 17. A. until 				B. when				C. since
(    ) 18. A. reading the book 	B. getting up early 		C. sitting at the desk
(    ) 19. A. water 			B. book 				C. coal
(    ) 20. A. returned 			B. read 				C. bought
(    ) 21. A. difficult 			B. different 			C. impossible
(    ) 22. A. Look for 			B. Look at 			C. Look after
(    ) 23. A. new 				B. different 			C. wonderful
(    ) 24. A. broken 			B. clean 				C. complete
(    ) 25. A. words			B. water 				C. wood
**III. ****阅读理解。（每题****1.5****分，共****30****分）**
**A**
**What's better for learning, hands-on projects or tests?**
We did a survey about two days to study in our school. 73% of the students prefer hands-on(动手的) projects while the rest think tests are better for learning. Here are four students'ideas。
| Hands-on projects require time and hard work to complete. It teaches kids not to put things off. Some kids might get bored and be less interested in studying for a test. Studying also doesn’t prepare you as much for the future, since jobs at times will have more difficult tasks than simply studying for a test. Also, completing a project is good for spending time with your friends or family. **——Bruno** |
| --- |
| With a hands-on project you can be creative while you learn. It's also a lot more fun than sitting at a desk with flash cards, memorizing information they forget about after the test. Besides, with a hands-on project you can learn more than you expected, like problem solving, creativity, and different ways of thinking.**——David** |
| When people study, they remember what was in the book. If they know they have a test, they will most likely take notes on all the important information to help them with the test, so they will learn it better.**——Alice** |
| I think kids learn better studying for tests. If you actually sit and study what you are supposed to learn, you will remember it. hands-on projects might end up making a kid feel stressed if they are trying to finish on time, and if you are stressed, you might not learn as much. **——Matt** |

(    ) 26. According to the survey, how many students like studying for tests better?
A.73%.                B.50%.              C.27%.             D.100%.
(    ) 27. What does Bruno think of hands-on projects?
A. They may be less interesting and more difficult.
B. They can make children learn to put off tasks.
C. They are much easier than studying for tests.
D. They may help children to improve friendship.
(    ) 28. How many reasons does David give why he prefers hands-on projects?
A. Two.              B. Three.              C. Four.              D. Five.
(    )29. Which sentence describes Matt and Alice's point of view(观点 )of studying for tests?
A．Students will focus on studying for tests better.
B. Students will be more creative while studying.
C. Students will be more active in and after class.
D. Students will forget the information after tests.
**B**
    (Shenzhen, Wednesday, 31 May)——Shenzhen traffic police fined  4,251 private cars 300 yuan each because they used the bus lane(公交车道) during the three-day Dragon Boat Festival holiday. The bus lane on the Luosha Road and Huishen Coastal Expressway(惠深沿海高速) to Dapeng was put into use on Sunday, the first day of the holiday.
    The bus lane only allows buses between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. during holidays and weekends.
    To make sure traffic on the bus lane moved smoothly, police officers were sent to work along the road using cameras and drones(无人机) to get information and photos of the vehicles(车辆) that entered the bus lane against the traffic rules.
    Information from police shows the bus lane has reduced the time it takes buses to get to the east of the city. A tourist took a holiday bus to Dapeng at noon from the Luohu Stadium Stop, while his friend drove a private car. The bus arrived at 12:48 p.m. The private car arrived at 2: 05 p.m.
    According to police, the bus lane can also be used as the rescue passage for accidents that happen in the tunnels.
(    ) 30. According to the news, when did the Dragon Boat Festival holiday begin?
A. On 27 May.              		B. On 28 May.
C. On 29 May              		D. On 30 May.
(    ) 31. When can a private car use the bus lane during the holidays and weekends?
A. From 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.                  	B. From 9 p.m. to 9 a.m.
C. On Saturday or Sunday.              		D. When there is an accident in the tunnel
(    ) 32. How many minutes earlier did the bus arrive at Dapeng than the private car?
A. About 48 minutes              B. Less than 60 minutes
C. About 77 minutes              D. More than 120 minutes
(    ) 33. Which of the following is the main idea of this news report?
A. Police fined 4, 251 private cars for using the bus lane during the holiday.
B. Police said it was easier to go to Dapeng by bus than by car during the holiday.
C. Police used cameras and drones to fine private cars if they entered the bus lane.
D. Police used the bus lane and the tunnels for rescue in accidents during the holiday.
**  C**
    Liang Xianghua, a 22-year-old girl from Guangxi University, has been well-known in China for her sand painting since her first work was used by CCTV.
    "Sand paintings really attracted me while I was watching a video **performance**, I was surprised by how this artwork melted people's heart in minutes, "said Liang. "I fell in love with the way the sand pictures, music and the light combined (融合) with each other to make a flow of emotion(情感). You can express things freely.”
    In order to master the skills, Liang practised for several hours every day. She said that she couldn't even do the first step well of throwing sand onto the glass. But she didn' t give up.
    After finding success with her first show, she was invited to do many performances. This made her quite tired. She decided to give a stop and focus on her study. But an invitation from Malaysia changed her mind just as **she was about to wash the sand from her hands**. This spring, she was invited by a Malaysia middle school to give a performance. Liang didn' t want to do a live show, but agreed to do a video for the school showing its development over the years.
    She received praise for her work and the performance was described as an eye-opener for the students. This made her wonder if her art would be more meaningful if she made it for the poor students.
    As a volunteer this time, she plans to take part in a summer programme offering help to pupils in a mountain area, and give the most wonderful show in her life.
(    ) 34. Which of the following helps you understand the underlined word "**performance**"?
A. show              B. painting              C. success              D. invitation
(    ) 35. Why did Liang fall in love with sand painting?
A. Because she wanted to be famous.
B. Because she wanted to be a volunteer.
C. Because sand paintings melted her heart.
D Because she loved watching video programmes.
(    ) 36. What is the implied  (隐含)  meaning of the underlined sentence "...she... hands, "in  Paragraph 4 ?
A. It means Liang decided to wash the sand off her sands.
B. It means Liang wanted to make a new sand painting.
C. It means Liang wanted to do voluntary work in summer.
D. It means Liang decided to give up doing sand paintings.
(    ) 37. What's the writer's purpose of writing the third paragraph?
A. To tell us that Liang is good at making sand pictures.
B. To explain why Liang fell in love with sand pictures.
C. To show that Liangs success comes from hard work.
D. To express that Liang enjoys throwing sand onto the glass.
**D**
| Dear daughters , Most parents tell their children, "You can be anything you want when you grow up. "I feel the same and I say this often. But I also want you to understand that the dream itself comes from hard work, some good luck and good timing. Girls, here are some words of wisdom (智慧) as you make your way in the world, from your mom. **Be open-minded to changing your path (even several times) along the way. ** In high school, I wanted to be an official. I left my hometown and entered a college in Washington D. C.  There, I discovered that I’m creative,  a strong leader and great at marketing. As a result, I moved on to the head of a national organization. Becoming a mother while in that job opened my mind to starting a business. Now I run a successful company I started up all by myself. Work out what you are good at and what you are interested in. Keep an open mind and change what you are doing based on what you are learning about yourself. **Failure is very important to your success ** I won't tell you to feel good about failure. Failure can be heartbreaking. But I will tell you that every failure I've had along the way has certainly made me better . Failing the big math exam in high school and going to summer school were embarrassing. I finally passed, and I've never failed an exam again. I learned from that experience to ask for help. Now, I ask for help in business all the time. I'm proud to be a role model to you as a mom and a company owner. I hope I can help you believe that you can be anything you want and you can have everything on your list. I will be very glad to watch your lives unfold before my eyes Love, Your mom |
| --- |

(    ) 38. According to the letter, What should the daughters think about if they want to change
what they are doing?
A. Advantages and interest                B. Wisdom and dreams.
C. Good luck and timing                     D. Experience and help.
(    ) 39. According to the mother, how should her daughters deal with failure?
A.They should feel good about failure.                B. They should be sad about failure.
C. They should learn from failure.                         D. They should avoid any failure.
(    ) 40. Which of the following best describes the mother?
A.Worried but wise.                         B. Unlucky and unsuccessful.
C. open-minded but cold.                D. Kind and successful.
(    ) 41. what's the letter mainly about?
A. Mom and daughters.                   B. Moms advice to daughters.
C. Being open-minded.                    D. Failure is the mother of success.
**E**
    Recently, China announced it had achieved success in drilling fire ice or methane hydrate(天然气水合物,即可燃冰), from the seabed in the Shenhu area of the South China Sea. It produces high amount of energy when it is burned, leaving nothing but dioxide and water.
    Many countries, including the United States and Japan, have long been doing research on methane hydrate, but taking it from bottom of the sea has been a common problem they are facing. According to reports, China succeeded in drilling methane hydrate for a number of days continuously and got an average of over 16,000 m³  daily. It is believed to be a big breakthrough.
    Scientists say there is about 21, 000 trillion (万亿 ) m³  of methane hydrate in the world. If we can use it, it can meet the world's energy need for 1, 000 years. However, it is too early to say a new energy source  (来源 ) has been found because we are still facing two main challenges ——environmental risk and economic (经济的) cost. When methane hydrate is taken from the seabed, it may go into the air easily. That s very bad for the environment because methane is one of the worst greenhouse gases. Besides, drilling methane hydrate is very expensive as well.
    However, Chinas technology breakthrough is very important because it shows the way researchers across the world should take. It also raises hopes that one day we can drill methane hydrate as a source of energy.
(    ) 42. What is Paragraph I mainly about?
A. China is producing a large amount of energy from fire ice
B. China is making good use of fire ice throughout the country.
C. China has already succeeded in drilling fire ice from the seabed.
D. China has turned fire ice from the South China Sea into daily energy.
(    ) 43. What's the common problem many countries are facing when doing research on fire ice?
A. How to take it out from the bottom of the sea.
B. How to turn it into useful energy at the lowest cost.
C. How to make it cheap on the future energy market.
D. How to change it into a traditional form of energy.
(    ) 44. Why is it too early to say a new energy source has been found?
A. Because it's too difficult to find the place where the fire ice lies and how to drill it.
B. Because it's not easy for fire ice to go into the air and be good for the environment.
C. Because it’s quite impossible for fire ice to take the place of other sources of energy.
D. Because it's expensive to drill fire ice and it may do great harm to the environment.
(    ) 45. Where can we probably read the article?
A. In a storybook.       			B. In a newspaper.
C. In a travel guide.      			D. In an advertisement.
**语法填空（每空****1****分，共****10****分）**
		In a small house outside London lives an old man. People often see him look 46.<u>        </u> his flowers in his garden all the time.
		One day a young painter 47.<u>        </u> (go) by the old man’s garden. He looked at the nice garden and the special room, picturing how happy he would be if he lived in such a 48.<u>        </u> (beauty) place. Suddenly he found the old gardener was 49.<u>        </u> (terrible) blind. Shocked, he walked to the old man and asked, “Why are you taking care of flowers every day which you can’t see in fact” The blind gardener smiled, “I can tell you
 four reasons. First, I was 50.<u>        </u> gardener when I was young and I really love this job. Second, although I can’t see these flowers, I can touch them. Third, I can smell the sweetness of them. At last, it’s you.”
		“Me?” But you don’t know me” answered the painter, still puzzled.
	“Yes, it’s true that I don’t know you. 51.<u>        </u> I know flowers are gifts which everyone loves. And the beauty of my garden will get many people into a good mood.” answered the old man.
		The words of the gardener warm me with 52.<u>        </u> (please). He looked after the flowers 53.<u>        </u>
(make) others enjoy the warm sunshine of in spring. He can’t see the beautiful flowers he planted, just like
Beethoven, who can’t hear his wonderful music 54.<u>        </u>.
		The old man is alone but not lonely. All of his flowers are his friends and neighbors. They 55.<u>       </u> (grow) in his heart. I believe that he can hear the voice of them.
**V****．写作（****15****分）**
假设你是李华，三年的初中生活即将过去，你的外籍同学Sam在英语学习上帮助了你。在即将毕业之际，请你在给Sam的毕业纪念册上用英文写一段留言。要求包括以下内容要点：
1.你在英语学习上曾遇到的困难；
2. Sam 对你的帮助、建议及措施：（1）多听多读；
（2）多看英语电影，多唱英文歌曲；
（3）……（自由发挥，不少于一项内容）；
3. 你的收获及对Sam的感谢和祝福。
Dear Sam,
How time flies! It’s time for us to say goodbye.
<u>                                                                               </u>
<u>                                                                               </u>
<u>                                                                               </u>
<u>                                                                               </u>
<u>                                                                               </u>
<u>                                                                           </u>
											 Yours sincerely,
                                                                     Li Hua
<div align="center">

**2017****年深圳市中考英语试卷真题解析**

</div>
**I. ****选择填空。（****15****分）**
**I.****从下面每小题的****A****、****B****、****C****三个选项中选出可以替换划线部分的最佳选项。（共****8****小题，每小题****1****分，计****8****分）**
1. Ancient Greeks used a<u> giant</u> wooden horse to capture the city of Troy.
A. huge				B. wonderful				C. wide
【答案】A
【考点】词义辨析
【解析】A选项huge表示巨大的，庞大的”；B选项wonderful表示“令人惊叹的，极好的，奇妙的”；C选项wide表示“宽的，广泛的”。因此正确答案选A。
2. —I <u>worked as</u> a volunteer in the school library last Friday afternoon.
   —Really? Can I go with you next time?
A. had				B. made					C. was
【答案】C
【考点】词义辨析
【解析】A选项had表示“有”；B选项made表示“做，制作”；C	选项was表示“是”。题干中的“work as”表示“担任，从事……工作”，因此正确答案选C。
3. —I have <u>difficulty</u> in learning Chinese. Could you give me some help?
   —Sure. Reading a lot will help you improve your Chinese.
A. questions			B. problems				C. tasks
【答案】B
【考点】词义辨析
【解析】A选项questions表示“需要寻找答案的问题”；B选项表示“难以解决的问题”；C选项表示“工作，任务”。题干中的“difficulty”表示“困难，困境”，因此正确答案选B。
4. —China’s first large passenger plane C919 flew successfully on March 5.
   —Yes. What’s more, it was built<u> on our own</u> in Shanghai.
   A. with some help		B. from our friends			C. by ourselves
【答案】C
【考点】词组辨析
【解析】A选项with some help表示“得到了一些帮助”；B选项from our friends表示“来自我们的朋友”；C选项by ourselves表示“我们独立完成”。 题干中的“on our own”表示“凭我们自己”，因此正确答案选C。
5. —Hi, Bob! What’s <u>going on</u> over there?
—Oh, Tom and Dick are playing chess, with a crowd of students watching them.
happening			B. appearing				C. working
【答案】A
【考点】词义辨析
【解析】三个选项均为动词的现在分词。A选项happening表示“发生”；B选项appearing表示“出现”；C选项working表示“工作”。划线词组所在句子句意为“——嗨，鲍勃，那边发生什么事情了？——噢，汤姆和迪克正在下象棋，一群学生在围观。” 词组“going on”表示“发生”，因此正确答案选A。
6. —Ding Ning <u>beat</u> Miu Hirano, a Japanese player, in the 2017 World Table Tennis Championship entering the final.
   —We were all excited at the good news.
fought with			B. won against				C. lost by
【答案】B
【考点】词组辨析
【解析】A选项fought with表示“与……斗争”；B选项won against表示“赢，打败”；B选项lost by表示“因……而吃亏，因……而受损失”。 题干中的beat表示“战胜、打败”，因此正确答案选B。
7. —Did you see the movie *Dangal* last week?
   —No. I<u> hardly</u> go to the cinema these days. I am busy writing a book report.
often				B. always					C. seldom
【答案】C
【考点】词义辨析
【解析】A选项often表示“经常”；B选项always表示“总是，常常”；C选项seldom表示“很少”。 题干中的“hardly”表示“几乎不”，因此正确答案选C。
8. —In Shenzhen the city center will be<u> connected to</u> all the districts by metro in several years.
—Great, I’m proud of living in Shenzhen.
  A. closed to				B. joined to 				C. added to
【答案】B
【考点】短语辨析
【解析】A选项closed to表示“离……近; 与……关系密切”；B选项joined to表示“加入，与……相连”；C选项added to表示“添加，增加”。 题干中的“connected to”表示“与……相连接”，因此正确答案选B。
**ii. ****从下面每小题的****A****、****B****、****C****三个选项中选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项（共７题，每小题１分，计７分）**
9. You are beautiful today. Your shoes color<u>       </u>your dress color.
  A. catches				B. matches 				C. meets
【答案】B
【考点】词语释义
【解析】A选项catches表示“抓住”；B选项matches表示“匹配，相称”；C选项meets表示“遇见，迎合，满足”。根据题干意思“你的鞋子和你的裙子很配”可知，本题正确答案为B。
10.<u>       </u> is the quality to be brave when you are facing difficulties.
  A. Courage				B. Pride				C. Humor
【答案】A
【考点】词语释义
【解析】A选项courage表示“勇气，胆量”；B选项pride表示“骄傲”；C选项humor表示“幽默”。根据题干意思“勇气是当你面对困难的时候所表现出来的勇敢的品质”可知，本题正确答案为A。
11. —It’s going to rain. Remember to<u>       </u>your umbrella with you when you go to school, dear.
—All right, Mum. Bye!
A. take				B. buy				C. put
【答案】A
【考点】词语释义
【解析】A选项take与题干中的with搭配，表示“随身携带某物”；B选项buy表示“买”；C选项put表示“放”。根据解析搭配和题干含义，本题正确答案为A。
12. —The scenery of Shenzhen is amazing,<u>        </u> in spring.
    —I think so. You can see green trees and flowers everywhere.
Exactly			B. especially			C. actually
【答案】B
【考点】词语释义
【解析】A选项exactly表示“准确地，确切地”；B选项especially表示“尤其地，特别地”；C选项actually表示“实际上”。根据题干意思“深圳的景色很美，尤其是在春天”可知，本题正确答案为B。
13. —My daughter will<u>        </u>for America to study next month.
—You’ll miss her very much.
set down			B. set off				C. set up
【答案】B
【考点】词组辨析
【解析】A选项set down表示“记下，写下”；B选项set off表示“出发，动身”；C选项set up表示“建立”。根据题干意思“我女儿下月即将出发去美国学习”可知，本题正确答案为B。
14. —Anne, the information you gave me is really<u>         </u>. Thank you very much.
—Not at all. I’m happy I can help you.
A. useless			B. ordinary			C. valuable
【答案】C
【考点】词语释义
【解析】A选项useless表示“没用的”；B选项ordinary表示“普通的，平常的”；C选项valuable表示“珍贵的，有价值的”。根据题干意思“你给我的信息很有价值”可知，本题正确答案为C。
15. —She got full marks in the math exam.
—Her parents were<u>         </u>her.
satisfied with		B. tired of			C. worried about
【答案】A
【考点】词组辨析
【解析】A选项satisfied with表示“对……满意”；B选项tired of表示“对……感到厌烦”；C选项worried about表示“为……担心”。根据题干意思“她在数学考试中得了满分。她的父母对她感到很满意。”可知，本题正确答案为A。
**II. ****完型填空。（每空****1.5****分，共****15****分）**
	An old man lived with his little grandson. Every day the old man got up early to read books. His grandson wanted to be just like him and tried to copy him in every <u>   </u>16<u>   </u> he could.
	One day the grandson asked, “Grandpa, I try to read that book just like you do. But I don’t understand it and I always forget <u>   </u>17<u>   </u> I close the book. What good does <u>   </u>18<u>   </u>  do?”
	The grandfather quietly turned from putting <u>   </u>19<u>   </u> in the stove and replied, “Take this coal basket down to the river and bring me back a basket of water.
	 The boy did as his grandpa said, but all the water leaked(漏) out before he got back home. The grandfather laughed and said, “You’ll have to walk faster next time.”
	The next time the boy ran faster, but the basket was still empty before he <u>   </u>20<u>   </u> home. The boy said, “See, Grandpa, it’s <u>   2</u>1<u>   </u> to finish the task!”
	“Is it no use?” the old man said. “<u>   </u>22<u>   </u> the basket.”
	The boy looked at the basket and for the first time realized that the basket was <u>   </u>23<u>   </u>. Instead of a dirty old coal basket, it was <u>   </u>24<u>   </u> inside and out.
	“My child, that’s what happens when you read books. You might not understand or remember everything, but the <u>   </u>25<u>   </u> will change you inside and outside. That is the work of reading in our lives.”
(    ) 16. A. way 				B. book 				C. table
(    ) 17. A. until 				B. when				C. since
(    ) 18. A. reading the book 	B. getting up early 		C. sitting at the desk
(    ) 19. A. water 			B. book 				C. coal
(    ) 20. A. returned 			B. read 				C. bought
(    ) 21. A. difficult 			B. different 			C. impossible
(    ) 22. A. Look for 			B. Look at 			C. Look after
(    ) 23. A. new 				B. different 			C. wonderful
(    ) 24. A. broken 			B. clean 				C. complete
(    ) 25. A. words			B. water 				C. wood
【答案】16-20ABACA     21-25 CBBBA
【解析】文章体裁为记叙文。讲述爷爷和孙子之间的一个小故事。从前，一个老人和他的小孙子一起生活，每天老人总是早起读书，孙子想要像他爷爷一样，所以努力地模仿他的一切行为。一天，孙子对爷爷说他已经很努力地像爷爷一样读书，但是他不明白文章的意思并且一关上书就把书里的东西都忘记了，爷爷没有直接回答孙子的问题，而是让他去用装煤的篮子打水，孙子反复装了几次，水都在到家前漏光了，孙子对爷爷说这是根本不可能完成的任务。这时，爷爷让孙子看那个装煤的篮子，孙子惊奇地发现以前那个又脏又旧的篮子，现在竟然从内到外都干干净净。这时，爷爷对孙子说“这是和读书一个道理，读书时你可能不能理解或记住每件事，但是读书会从内到外地改变你，这就是读书的意义。
A 【解析】考查名词词义辨析，句意是“孙子尝试各种方法去模仿爷爷的做法。”
B.【解析】考查连词词义辨析，句意是“我不理解文章意思，并且当我关上书的时候，总是忘记书里的内容。”
A【解析】考查上下文语境，从上文“Grandpa, I try to read that book just like you do, but…” 可知孙子是对读书的意义有疑问。
C【解析】考查上下文语境，从下文 “Take this coal basket down to the river and bring me back a basket of water.”可知前面爷爷是把煤炭放在炉子里了。
A【解析】考查上下文语境，从上文“but all the water leaked(漏) out before he got back home”可知应该是打水回家。
C【解析】考查上下文语境，前文提到孙子尝试了很多次但是还是半路水就漏光了，因此，孙子认为这是不可能完成的任务。
B【解析】考查动词短语词义辨析，look for 寻找，look at 看，look after 照顾，根据句意，应是“看这个篮子”。
24. B【解析】考查上下文语境，根据下文“Instead of a dirty old coal basket…”不是…而是…，说明这个篮子变得与以前不同了。
24. B【解析】考查上下文语境，根据前文“Instead of a dirty old coal basket…”, 可知后文意思应与前文意思相反，不是又脏又旧的篮子，而是从内到外都很干净。
25. A【解析】考查名词词义辨析，读书时你可能不能理解或记住每件事，但是书里的话会从内到外地改变你，这就是读书的意义。
**III. ****阅读理解。（每题****1.5****分，共****30****分）**
<div align="center">

**阅读****A****篇**

</div>
**文章大意：**hands on实践动手能力和课堂测试两种学习方式哪个更好？四个人分别说明观点，基本都是细节理解题。
 百分之多少的人认为测试好？
	A. 50%	   		B. 73%			C. 27%	 		D. 100%
【解析】C
细节题：根据文章开头“73% of students prefer hands-on…”通过计算可知，只有27%的学生认为课堂测试比较好，故选C。
 David 支持hands-on的原因？
	A. 2      		B. 3      		C. 4      		D.5
【解析】B
细节题：根据表格中David的观点“you can learn a lot from hands-on, like solving the problems…”可知共有三个，故选B。
 为什么觉得动手比较好？
A. 考试比手工更有趣				B. 做手工比较浪费时间
C. 手工比考试简单				D. 做手工能够改善你与朋友之间的关系
【解析】D
细节题：A选项相比之下原文说手工更有趣；B选项Alice支持手工所以不认为其浪费时间；C选项文中提及手工有时候难度会很大；D选项原文原句提及，故选D.
那个句子可以描述Matt和Alice的观点？
	A. They can focus on their studies.
	B. They can become more creative when study.
	C. They can become more active in and after class.
	D. They will forget the knowledge quickly after tests.
【解析】A
细节题：根据支持考试的两位同学的观点，对比可得出该题选A.
<div align="center">

**阅读****B****篇，题源来自****Shenzhen Daily**

</div>
题源如下：
**AT LEAST 4,250 HOLIDAY DRIVERS FINED FOR USING BUS LANE**
	SHENZHEN(2017-5-31, Wednesday) traffic police fined 4,251 private cars 300 yuan (US$44.11) each for illegally using the bus lane on the Luosha Road and Dameisha Tollgate section of Huishen Coastal Expressway (S30) by 8 p.m. yesterday since it was put into use Sunday, the first day of the three-day Dragon Boat Festival holiday.
The bus lane bans eastbound vehicles except buses between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. during holidays and weekends.
Police issued 2,395 tickets Sunday and 1,856 yesterday by press time.
To ensure smooth traffic on the bus lane, police sent officers to patrol the site using cameras and drones to capture violations. The information and photos of the vehicles that illegally entered the bus lane were updated using roadside LCDs and the police microblog.
Statistics from the police show that the bus lane has reduced the time it takes buses to get to the east of the city.
A resident took a holiday bus to Dapeng at noon from the Luohu Stadium stop, while his colleague drove a private car. The bus arrived at Xinda Tourism Terminal at 12:48 p.m., 77 minutes earlier than the private car, which arrived at 2:05 p.m. According to police, the bus lane can also be used as a rescue passage for accidents that happen in the tunnels.
On the first day of the holiday, which ends tomorrow, 53,000 vehicles headed to Dapeng and 35,000 vehicles went to tourist attractions in Huizhou.
The traffic flow started to surge at 8 a.m. and reached its peak at around 9 a.m. with the hourly number of vehicles reaching 3,500 between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. Police had to impose controls on Luosha Road and Shenzhen-Yantian No. 2 Passage. The parking lots in tourist attractions, such as Jiaochangwei and Yangmeikeng, were fully packed by around noon.
The 110 hotline received a total of 1,581 reports on the first day, including 845 accident reports and 110 congestion reports.
Yantian District tourist attractions received 60,500 visitors on the first day of the holiday. Most of the visitors were at Dameisha, which has required online reservations since the May Day holiday.
The beach park capped the number of visitors to 80,000 a day and travelers to the park need to make online reservations within seven days in advance.
	As park visitors need to pass through security checks, police seized 97 knives and bottles of beer at the entrances. In addition, thefts on the beach have also been reduced thanks to the security checks and online reservation system.
According to the news, when did the Dragon Boat Festival holiday begin?
	A. on May 27  		B. on May 28  		C. on May 29  	D. on May 30
【解析】选B。 细节理解题。根据5月31号是周三，“yesterday since it was put into use Sunday, the first day of the three-day Dragon Boat Festival holiday” 推算可知，周日是5月28号，故选B.
When can the private car use the bus lane?
    A. From 9:00 am to 9:00 pm 					B. From 9:00 pm to 9:00 am
    C. on weekends							D. when there is an accident
【解析】选D。 细节理解题。根据原文可直接推出答案，原文： According to police, the bus lane can also be used as a rescue passage for accidents that happen in the tunnels.
How long was the holiday bus earlier than the private car arrived at Xinda Tourism Terminal?
	A. About 60 minutes.						B. About half an hour.
	C. About 77 minutes.						D. Over two hours.
【答案】选C。
【解析】 细节理解题。原文：第6段：The bus arrived at Xinda Tourism Terminal at 12:48 p.m., 77 minutes earlier than the private car, which arrived at 2:05 p.m.
Which of the following is the main idea for the news report?
	A. SHENZHEN (2017-5-31, Wednesday) traffic police fined 4,251 private cars 300 yuan (US$44.11) each for illegally using the bus lane.
	B. 干扰项
	C. Police sent officers to patrol the site using cameras and drones to capture violations.
	D. 干扰项。
【解析】主旨大意题。新闻报道类的主旨概括，通读全文进行归纳概括，原文为总分结构，所以可以看文章开头，故选A.
<div align="center">

**阅读****C****篇**

</div>
**文章大意：**主要讲述一个女孩与沙画的故事，一位广西的女孩，小时候喜欢上画沙画，因为沙画画的好，所以获奖并被很多节目邀请当嘉宾，然而她想放弃沙画，集中精力学习，后来她被说服，免费去给贫困学校学生表演沙画，随后抒发了自己想当志愿者的感想。
 34. The underlined word “performance” in Paragraph 1 means?
	A. show				B. video				C.干扰项			D.干扰项
【解析】A
猜词题：根据划线词所在句子的句意，女孩在电视上看到沙画表情。推算可知performance是表演的意思，故选择A选项，其他选项不符合句意。
Why the girl learnt the sand painting?
A. because she wanted to be a volunteer.
B. because she wanted to be famous.
C. because the sand painting melted her heart.
	D. because she wanted to earn a lot of money.
【解析】C
推算题：由“The sand painting melted many people’s heart”一句推断可知。小女孩因为喜欢上沙画才去学习，故选择C选项。
“She is about to wash the sand from her hands”这句话大意是什么？
	A. She wanted to wash the sand off her hands.
	B. 干扰项
C. 干扰项
D. She wanted to give up the sand painting.
【解析】D
推断题：根据前文，她想集中精力学习，放弃沙画，故选择D选项。
What is the purpose of writing Paragraph three?
A. Paragraph three shows that she wants to throw the sand on the glass.
B. 干扰项
C. 干扰项
D. Paragraph three shows she works hard.
【解析】D
推断题：第三段描写女孩刚开始很难将沙子撒在玻璃上，之后每天练习几个小时，最终将沙画画得很好，由此推断出第三段的目的是表明女孩很努力。
<div align="center">

**阅读****D****篇**

</div>
**文章大意：**母亲写给两个女儿的建议，告诉他们要改变现在做事情的方法，给其中一个女儿的建议是要有开放的思想；给另一个女儿的建议是要懂得寻求帮助，并且其中每个建议之前还有妈妈的一段经历。
38. According to the letter, what should the daughters think about is they want to change what they are doing?
	A. Advantage and interest					B. Wisdom and dream
	C. Good luck and timing						D. Experience and help
【解析】D
细节题：通过文章母亲读给女儿提出建议，且每个建议之前还有母亲的一段经历，从中可知，母亲希望女儿能考虑的，选项为D。
39. According to the mother, how should her daughters deal with the failures?
	A. They should feel good about the failure		B. They should be sad about the failure
	C. They should learn from the failure			D. They should avoid any failure.
【解析】C
细节题：通读全文，根据母亲给女儿的建议和经历，可以总结得出，答案为C。
40. What’s the main idea of the passage?
	A.干扰项
	B. Mother’s advice for her daughters.
	C.干扰项
	D.干扰项
【解析】B
主旨题：考察学生对文章内容的理解和把握，通过通读全文可知，主要内容围绕母亲给两个女儿写信，并告诉他们一些建议，要改变他们现在做事的方法，所以，答案为B。
41. What do you think of the mother?
	A. Worried and wise.
	B. Unkind and unsuccessful.
	C. Kind but cold.
	D. Kind and successful.
【解析】D
归纳题：从文中对母亲的态度和母亲给女儿的建议等描述中可知，答案为D.
<div align="center">

**阅读****E****篇**

</div>
**文章大意：**文章主要介绍中国在开采可燃冰（fire ice; or methane hydrates ）技术上的突破以及为什么不能大量开采可燃冰。文章出处为China Daily 2017年5月25号的报道，标题为First step towards using for ice as new energy
On May 18, the Ministry of Land and Resources announced that it had achieved success in drilling fire ice, or methane hydrate, from the seabed in the Shenhu area of the South China Sea. Methane hydrate is akin to methane gas trapped in ice-like crystals; it produces high amount energy when burned and its chemical reaction produces nothing but dioxide and water.
Since methane hydrate is both clean and energy-intensive and is considered the fuel of the future, many media outlets used big, bold headlines, such as "China makes technological breakthrough" and "New energy source found for China" to report the find.
In fact, it would not be an exaggeration to say China has indeed achieved a great technological breakthrough in the field.
Many countries, including the United States and Japan, have long been conducting research on methane hydrate, but extracting it from the bottom of the sea has been a common problem plaguing all of them. But, according to reports, the Chinese team succeeded in drilling methane hydrate for nearly eight successive days, with the average daily extraction exceeding 16,000 cubic meters, which is a big breakthrough.
However, it is too early to say a new energy source has been found. The world's total methane hydrate reserve is estimated to be about 21,000 trillion cubic meters, which if extracted could meet the world's energy need for 1,000 years. But the successful test drilling of methane hydrate does not mean it can be extracted for industrial use.
To extract enough methane hydrate for everyday use, the drilling technology must be successfully transferred from the laboratory to the industry. And for that, the two main challenges－environmental risk and economic cost－have to be overcome.
Methane hydrate is formed under high pressure and low temperature at the bottom of the sea, and it decomposes into methane and water when extracted from the seabed. That's disastrous for the environment because methane is one of the worst greenhouse gases. If methane is released in large volumes into the atmosphere, it will cause temperatures to rise further and intensify climate change.
Besides, the process to extract methane hydrate is very expensive as it involves highly advanced equipment and massive manpower. Considering that 1 cubic meter of methane hydrate provides the same amount energy that 164 cubic meters of natural gas does, the cost of using methane hydrate as an energy source is way too high.
Therefore, China has to solve many problems before it can use methane hydrate as a source of energy. But it can be said that China has taken the first big step toward solving those problems.
China's technological breakthrough is important because it shows the way researchers across the world should take. It also raises hopes that one day we can drill methane hydrate as a source of energy. With China achieving initial success in the field, researchers worldwide are expected to pay more attention to the subject, and if they make concerted efforts to find ways to extract methane hydrate without causing environmental damage, it can be used as energy earlier than thought.
Besides, at present studies on methane hydrate exploitation are sponsored mainly by states and the researchers hardly work with each other. With China taking lead in the field, hopefully international cooperation in research will become a possibility.
42. What’s the main idea of the first paragraph?
A. Fire ice has been widely used.
B. Many countries have drilled fire ice.
C. China has succeeded in drilling fire ice.
D. It’s difficult to drill from the seabed.
【解析】C
主旨题：考察学生对文章段落的理解和把握，第一段主要说的是开采可燃冰技术取得成功。所以选C。
43. What are the two main challenges the countries face in drilling fire ice?
A. 干扰项
B. 干扰项
C. 干扰项
D. Environmental risk and economic cost.
【解析】D
细节题：关键词是the two main challenges.对应原文第六段最后一句话可知，答案为D。
44. According to the passage, why fire ice shouldn’t be the real start of the energy source?
	A. It’s difficult to drill and It’s good for the environment.
	B. It’s difficult to transform fire ice into energy.
	C. 干扰项
	D. It’s expensive to drill and it’s harmful to the environment.
【解析】D
细节题：通过文章提到的environmental risk和economic cost 后面的详细叙述可知，开采可燃冰对环境是存在危害的，且开采费用昂贵，所以答案应为D.
45. The passage probably comes from <u>         </u> .
	A. Storybook
	B. Newspaper
	C. travel guide
	D. Advertisement
【解析】B
推测题：通过阅读全文可知，这是一篇科学技术报道，出现在报纸上的可能性相对更大，这篇文章出自China Daily 2017年5月25日的报道，所以，答案选B.
**语法填空（每空****1****分，共****10****分）**
		In a small house outside London lives an old man. People often see him look 46.<u>        </u> his flowers in his garden all the time.
		One day a young painter 47.<u>        </u> (go) by the old man’s garden. He looked at the nice garden and the special room, picturing how happy he would be if he lived in such a 48.<u>        </u> (beauty) place. Suddenly he found the old gardener was 49.<u>        </u> (terrible) blind. Shocked, he walked to the old man and asked, “Why are you taking care of flowers every day which you can’t see in fact” The blind gardener smiled, “I can tell you
 four reasons. First, I was 50.<u>        </u> gardener when I was young and I really love this job. Second, although I can’t see these flowers, I can touch them. Third, I can smell the sweetness of them. At last, it’s you.”
		“Me?” But you don’t know me” answered the painter, still puzzled.
	“Yes, it’s true that I don’t know you. 51.<u>        </u> I know flowers are gifts which everyone loves. And the beauty of my garden will get many people into a good mood.” answered the old man.
		The words of the gardener warm me with 52.<u>        </u> (please). He looked after the flowers 53.<u>        </u>
(make) others enjoy the warm sunshine of in spring. He can’t see the beautiful flowers he planted, just like
Beethoven, who can’t hear his wonderful music 54.<u>        </u>.
		The old man is alone but not lonely. All of his flowers are his friends and neighbors. They 55.<u>       </u> (grow) in his heart. I believe that he can hear the voice of them.
【答案】
 after			考察look 的介词短语，根据句意，应是“look after”照顾；
 went			考察动词时态，根据前后文可知是过去时；
 beautiful		考察形容词，“漂亮的地方”，所以是beautiful；
 terribly 		考察副词，修饰形容词“blind”，应用副词“terribly”；
 a			考察冠词，“当我小的时候，我就是一个园丁”， 故填 “a”；
 But		 	考察连词，前后两句话是转折关系，“我不认识你，但是我知道花是每个人都喜欢的礼物”；
 pleasure  	考察名词，with 是介词，后面应是名词，please的名词是pleasure；
 to make		考察不定式做目的状语，to make 表示为了让…
 himself		考察反身代词，反身代词做同位语，表示他自己。
 are grown		考察被动语态，grow此处是种植，花和种植之间应该是被动关系，因此填“are grown”；
【解析】本篇语法填空也是记叙文。讲述的是一个老人住在伦敦郊外的，人们经常看到他照顾他的花。一天，有一个年轻的画家经过老人的花园，惊叹于这个美丽的花园和特别的花房，年轻人想象如果自己住在这样美丽的花园里该有多幸福啊。突然间，他发现打理花园的老人是严重失明的，他很震惊并走过去问这个老人“你为什么每天都照顾你事实上根本就看不见的花呢？”老人微笑着说道“我可以告诉你四个原因。 “首先，当我很小的时候我就是一个园丁了，而且我真的很爱这个工作；第二， 尽管我看不见这些花，但是我可以触摸它们； 第三， 我可以闻到它们的芬芳； 最后，是因为你。”“我？” “但是你根本不认识我啊”年轻人说到。“是的，我确实不认识你，但是我知道花是每个人都喜欢的礼物。我美丽的花园会让人拥有好心情”老人回答到。园丁的话温暖了我，让我感到愉悦。他照顾了花，让别人享受春天温暖的阳光。他看不到自己种植的美丽的花朵，就像贝多芬一样，听不到他自己的美妙音乐。
	老人是孤独而不孤单的。他所有的花都是他的朋友和邻居。它们生长在他的心里。我相信他能听到它们的声音。
**V****．写作（****15****分）**
假设你是李华，三年的初中生活即将过去，你的外籍同学Sam在英语学习上帮助了你。在即将毕业之际，请你在给Sam的毕业纪念册上用英文写一段留言。要求包括以下内容要点：
1.你在英语学习上曾遇到的困难；
     2. Sam 对你的帮助、建议及措施：（1）多听多读；
                                   （2）多看英语电影，多唱英文歌曲；
                                   （3）……（自由发挥，不少于一项内容）；
     3. 你的收获及对Sam的感谢和祝福。
Dear Sam,
How time flies! It’s time for us to say goodbye.
<u>                                                                                       </u>
<u>                                                                                       </u>
<u>                                                                                       </u>
<u>                                                                                       </u>
<u>                                                                                       </u>
<u>                                                                                       </u>
											 Yours sincerely,
                                                                     Li Hua
**【参考范文】****     **
Dear Sam,
How time flies! It’s time for us to say goodbye.
I still remembered that I had some difficulties in English speaking and listening. It was you who helped me out of my trouble. You gave me some suggestions on improving my English speaking and listening. Firstly, you suggested that I should read more English books and listen to more English materials. Secondly, you said that watching English movies and singing English songs are good for me. Through movies, I know a lot about western culture, which is useful for me to learn English better. What’s more, you have spent lot of time practicing oral English with me.
Thanks for your help, I made great progress and got a high score in my speaking and listening test. Best wishes for you and keep in touch!
                                                            Yours sincerely,
                                                                     		Li Hua
