## **201****8****广东省深圳市中考英语真题及答案**
<div align="center">

(满分：85分 时间：80分钟)

</div>
**第一部分选择题****（****60****分）**
**I.****词汇测试****（****15****分）**
i.从下面每小题的A、B、C三个选项中选出可以替换划线部分的最佳选项，并在答题卡上 将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共8小题，每小题1分）
--- More than 400 street gardens will be built in Shenzhen next year.
--- Good news! Our city is becoming more and more beautiful.
		A. Over				B. Around			C. Nearly
--- Tim, you spend too much time on computers. It’s harmful to your eyes.
	--- I see. Thank you. I'll do more sports instead.
A. is good for	 	B. is bad for			C. is useful to
--- Hi, John! Would you like to go hiking with me tomorrow?
	--- Sounds great! It's a good way to keep fit.
A. lively				B. active			C. healthy
--- Mr. Li, I feel a little nervous before the coming exam.
			--- You’d better take a break from studies and relax yourself.
A. rest				B. breath			C. walk
---1 dream to be a great dancer when I grow up.
			---That’s great. But it requires confidence and a lot of practice.
A. gets				B. has				C. needs
--- Excuse me, could you please tell me how to get to the Concert Hall?
	---Sure. Go down the street, and you’ll find it close to the Book City.
			A. behind			B. opposite			C. near
--- Tony, have you got any plan for the summer vacation?
	--- Not yet. Perhaps I'll go back to my hometown with my family.
			A. Maybe			B. Actually			C. Generally
--- Our English club will put on a famous play during the school art week.
	---Really? l can't wait to watch it.
			A. work on			B. act out			C. make up
ii. 根据句子意思，从下面每小题的A.B.C三个选项中选出最恰当的词语完成句子，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共7小题，每小题1分）
--- Simon always reads for half an hour before bedtime every day.
--- That’s a good_______. Reading makes a full man.
	A. dream   			B. wish    			C. habit
--- Do you still remember our primary school teacher, Mrs. Liu?
		--- Yes, she always encouraged us and gave us support____ 	we met difficulties.
		A. whenever			B. whatever			C. however
--- I'm looking forward to the final of the 2018 World Cup.
--- Me too. I hope the German team will be the _______. It's my favorite
		A. Player      		B. winner	  		C. loser
--- The piano lessons are too hard for me. I nearly give up.
		--- Please be more ______ I believe you’ll make it.
		A. careful 			B. helpful 			C. patient
--- Have you heard about Shenzhen International Magic Festival?
	--- __________! It's a big event for magic lovers like me
		A. Well    			B. Certainly			C. Exactly
--- Jack usually	to help at the underground station on weekends
	--- Cool! Let's join him next Saturday.
		A. offers      		B. refuses			C. forgets
--- Have you noticed that Anna's great progress in spoken English?
	--- Yes. She sets us a good example. Hard work always ______
	A. makes a deal 		B. makes a difference C. makes a problem
**II.****完形填空（****15****分）**
		阅读下面短文，从短文后所给的A、B、C三个选项中选出能填入相应空白处的最佳选项，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共10小题，每小题1.5分）
		When I was young, I went to a boarding (寄宿）school in Edinburgh. It was far from home because I  16     on an island in the north of Scotland.
		It was a music school, and I studied the violin. At the end of the term, we all packed our bags and our	   17	 to go home for our holidays. Most kids went by train or bus. Some were	18	  by their parents. But I had to go home by ferry --- 14 hours overnight on the open sea.
		One summer, after packing my suitcase and violin, I said	19  	to my friends. I
took the train to the ferry terminal (渡船码头）and then got on the ferry. But when the ferry
started moving, I realized a(n)	   20	thing! I left my violin on the train!
		Oh no! What should I do? What would my dad say? He'd be really	21 	! I got so scared  (害怕）that I didn’t sleep all night.
		The next morning, I	   22   the ferry to meet my dad. After I told him everything, he laughed. I looked at him couldn't believe it. 	23  	was he laughing?
		I always had a label (标签）in my violin case with my address and a telephone number. My dad told me, “A cleaner found your violin on the train and took it to the police. They                 	24    me and put it on a plane. It arrived an hour ago.”	  25	 , my violin was safe
I was so happy!
A. lived 			B. played			C. worked
A. introduction		B. instructions		C. instruments
A. picked up 		B. cared for 			C. woken up
A. hello 			B. sorry 			C. goodbye
A. wonderful 		B. awful 			C. successful
A. happy 			B. helpful 			C. angry
A. got off  			B. got on 			C. got up
A. What 			B. Why   			C. When
A. called  			B. caught   		C. heard
A. Suddenly  		B. Luckily 			C. Sadly
	**III.****阅读理解****（****30****分****）**
阅读下面短文，从下面每小题的A、B、C、D四个选项中选出最佳选项，并在答题卡 将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共20小题，每小题1.5分）
<div align="center">

A

</div>
When you go on a vacation, the hotel you choose and the room you stay in are important. There are many cool theme (主题）hotel rooms around the world. Here are some of them
<div align="center">

The Harry Potter Room

</div>
The George Castle Hotel in England gives its guests the experience of staying in Harry Potter’s world.
This 19th-century castle hotel is beside Harry Potter tour bus stop. The bus will take you to the Making of Harry Potter studio tour.
<div align="center">

Ice Theme Room

</div>
An ice theme can be found at Hotel de Glace in Canada. In winter, you can get a fireplace and a private spa in the rooms
The ice hotel has new rooms each year. This winter, it will build a room with the theme of Disney's movie Frozen
<div align="center">

Pirate (海盗) Theme Room

</div>
If you want a more attractive theme room, the Adventure Island Hotel in America is the best choice.
In their pirate theme rooms, you’ll feel like you’re on a pirate ship in a world of sea adventures.
<div align="center">

Night at the Movie Room

</div>
At the Wensley Hotel in Australia, guests are crazy about the Night at the Movies Room. There they can see different things of Hollywood, such as Hollywood signs over the door, and hand-painted actors' pictures above the bed.
What can guests do during their stay at the George Castle Hotel?
A. Visit a movie studio.	  			B. Have a private spa.
C. Enjoy a movie night.	  			D. Play an adventure game
Who is most likely to choose the Adventure Island Hotel?
A. Kids who love Disneyland.	    	B. Kids who love pirate stories.
C. Adults who love castle tours.	 	D. Adults who love watching movies.
What is the possible choice for a super fan of Hollywood movies?
A. The Wensley Hotel				B. Hotel de Glace
C. The George Castle Hotel.			D. The Adventure Island Hotel.
Where is the text probably taken from?
A. A storybook						B.A history book
C. A science book.					D. A travel guide book.
<div align="center">

B

</div>
Last summer，Mac Hollan, a primary school teacher, was cycling to Alaska with two friends. On the way, his friends had to stop for a bicycle repair, but they encouraged Mac to ride on, and they would catch up with him soon.
Mac began to cycle alone. A few minutes later, Mac heard quick and loud breathing behind him. "Man, that's a big dog！” he thought. But when he looked to the side, he saw immediately that it wasn’t a dog at all, but a wolf, quickly catching up with him.
Mac’s heart jumped. He searched and took out his can of bear spray (防熊喷雾). With one hand on the bars, he fired the spray at the wolf A bright red cloud enveloped the animal. To Mac's relief (宽慰), <u>it </u>fell back, shaking its head. A minute later, however, it was again by his side. It even attacked the back of Mac's bike, tearing open his tent bag. He fired at the wolf a second time, and again, it fell back, only to quickly restart the chase (追赶).
Mac was riding hard now. He waved and shouted at passing cars without slowing down.
At that moment, Paul and Becky were driving their car on their way to Alaska. They found a dog-like animal running alongside a man on a bike. As they got closer, they realized that the “dog” was a wolf. Mac heard a large car behind him. He kept waving and shouting as the wolf was catching up closer. And the car did stop in front of him at the right time.
Why was Mac riding alone?
A. He wanted to try his bear spray.		B. He liked riding alone all the way.
C. His friends were repairing the bike.	D. His friends returned for their tents.
How did Mac feel when he realized a wolf was after him?
A. Calm.		B. Frightened.		C. Excited.  	D. painful
What does the underlined word "it" in Paragraph 3 refer to (指代)？
A. The wolf.		B. The dog.			C. The can.		D The cloud.
How did Mac ask for help in the end?
A. By cycling hard.	         		B. By firing the spray.
C. By waving and shouting.	  		D. By running after the car.
<div align="center">

C

</div>
The 14th Chinese Language Competition attracted about 1,100 children from kindergarten kids to high school students. The children from different language and cultural backgrounds met in San Francisco and competed in events like Chinese calligraphy (书法)，drawing and Chinese poetry recital (背诵).
Thomson, an 11th-grade boy from Justin-Siena High School in Napa city of California, has studied Chinese language for three years. It was hard for him to learn Chinese at the beginning, because it was one of the most difficult languages in the world. However, the writing of Chinese characters is a form of art, which made him feel different. "It's amazing to see how attractive Chinese culture is.” he said.
Julie, a 12<sup>t</sup><sup>h</sup> -grade girl shared her similar experience of learning Chinese for four years. When recalling her trip in Beijing and Shanghai, she expressed huge interest in shared bikes, ” The shared bike is known as one of the new “Great Inventions” of China, along with China's Express Railway and Alipay online payment system. They amaze the whole world as part of China's rapid rise.”
According to the hosting organization, the Confucius Institute at San Francisco State University, the competition was mainly for American and overseas Chinese kids. It aimed to set a platform to present (展示）their Chinese language and culture talents. It also helped to deepen the understanding of young Americans about the Chinese culture and history.
Where was the 14th Chinese Language Competition held?
A. In Beijing							B. In Shanghai
C. In Napa city.						D. In San Francisco
What is among the new “Great Inventions” of China according to the passage?
 		A. Railway.							B. Paper making.
C. The shared bike.					D. Chinese calligraphy.
Which statement is TRUE about the competition?
A. All college students took part in it.
B. It was not only for overseas Chinese kids.
C. It was hosted by Justin-Siena High School.
D. Students competed in different languages.
What is the best title for the passage?
A. Chinese Culture Talent Show Presented.
B. New “Great Inventions” Made in China.
C. Chinese Language Competition Held Again.
D. Ways to Learn the Chinese Language Shared.
<div align="center">

D

</div>
Shenzhen, Jan 1st, 2018 -- Shenzhen has become the world's first city to make all its public buses, about 16,359, run on electricity. A total of 12, 518 taxis, or 62.5 percent of all the taxis in the city are electric ones. “We will replace (替换) the rest of the taxis with electric ones by 2020.” said Mr. Chen from the government.
“I have been a driver for twenty years,” said Mr. Zhang, a driver who started to drive e-buses a month ago. “We had several rounds of training and passed strict exams before we were allowed to drive the e-buses.”
The city has built 8,000 charging poles (充电柱）and 501 bus charging stations. “A bus can be fully charged within two hours and the charging poles can serve 300 buses a day at our station. Since the replacement, the bus terminal has become quiet, even as the e-buses are entering and exiting the station.” said Mr. Guan, the manager of Qinghu Bus Station.
The use of e-buses and e-taxis plays an important role in improving air quality. In a year, the e-buses use 72.9 percent less energy than the traditional ones. The e-taxis will save the energy of 119, 000 tons of standard coal.
Shenzhen was one of the first 13 cities to take part in the National New-energy Vehicle Program (NNVP). In 2017, the city spent 3.3 billion yuan on e-buses and the charging equipment. The city also encourages people to buy new-energy cars or e-cars by reducing their payment.
How many e-taxis were there in Shenzhen in January, 2018?
A. 8000	B. 12,518	C. 16,359	D. 11,900
What is the influence of the replacement according to Mr. Guan?
A. It saves 72.9 percent energy.
B. It helps to improve air quality.
C. The bus station has become quiet.
D. People will pay more if they buy e-cars.
What can we infer (推断} from the passage?
A. It is not easy to be an e-driver.
B. Shenzhen is the first to use e-taxis.
C.13 cities are in the NNVP besides Shenzhen.
	   D. There are 300 charging poles at each bus station.
What is the main idea of the passage?
A. E-buses and e-taxis can save more energy in Shenzhen.
B. Shenzhen took part in the National New-energy Vehicle Program.
C. It is fast and convenient for the e-buses to be changed in Shenzhen.
D. Shenzhen is replacing its public buses and taxis with electric ones.
<div align="center">

E

</div>
Artificial intelligence (人工智能), or AI in short, is the science of giving computers and machines ability to think and work like humans. AI scientists and engineers have made a lot of cool technologies.
AI is rapidly catching up with the human ability to read faces. As a result, facial recognition (识别) is used a lot in the world. Chinese police use this technology to <u>identif</u><u>y</u> criminals (罪犯). Once they caught a criminal when he attended a concert. It also checks the lD of ride-hailing (网约车）drivers and lets people pay for things with a smile.
AI is also used in self-driving cars, which are believed to be the future of driving. Most drivers may wave or nod at passers-by to let them cross the street, but self-driving cars don't have this ability. Carmakers are testing a light signal system to help them “speak” to humans. The system can show what self-driving cars will do. For example, if a driverless car is yielding (让路)，it will flash two white lights side to side. A rapidly flashing light tells passers-by that the car is about to speed up.
Service Robots also show you how powerful AI is. Imagine this—you come back home from school and your robot housekeeper is waiting for you at the door. After dinner, he teaches you to play the piano, just like a real music teacher. Such thoughts will soon happen in the real world. In the future, more and more service robots will become good home helpers.
AI is so powerful that it can help human beings and even replace us in many jobs.
What does the underlined word “identify mean in Paragraph 2 probably mean?
A. To let somebody know his mistakes
B. To come to realize and tell who is who.
C. To take somebody to the police station.
D. To inform somebody of something important.
According to the passage, what is facial recognition used for?
A. Driving cars	       			B. Making people smile.
C. Calling the police. 				D. Checking people's information.
Which technology has been used in real life according to the passage?
A. Service Robots at school	       B. Robots as ride-hailing drivers.
C. Facial recognition for payment.		D. Light signals for self-driving cars.
What can we learn from the passage?
A. people use Al in many different ways.
B. Al will take the place of human beings in all jobs
C. Self-driving cars will be able to talk like humans.
D.A criminal was caught for inventing facial recognition.
<div align="center">

**第二部分非选择题（****25****分）**

</div>
**IV.****语法填空（****10****分）**
阅读下面短文，按照句子结构和上下午连贯要求，在空格处填入一个适当的词或使用 括号中的词语的正确形式填空。（共10小题，每题1分）
Recently, a foreign student in China gave a very touching answer to the question: What should China be proud of? It was<u> </u><u> </u><u>46.  </u>(wide)spread online.
 	Emma is from Canada. She came to China four years ago. Now she is<u> </u><u> 47  </u>university student in Ningbo. The following is China in her eyes.
  	<u> </u><u> </u><u>48</u><u>  </u> (find) a job in china can be really simple. There are more job <u> 49  </u>(chance) here than in any other country in the world.”
  	“Its public security is great. I <u> 50  </u> (travel) to many countries so far, and I think China is really safe.”
   	“About 400 million Chinese are studying English. China will become the country
<u>  5</u><u>1  </u> has the greatest number of English speakers in non-English speaking countries.”
   	“The speed of Chinese trains is high. On my<u> </u><u> </u><u>52   </u>(three) visit to my friend in Beijing, I took a train her. From Ningbo<u> </u><u> </u><u>53  </u> Beijing, the train runs 1,365 kilometers for only seven hours.”
   	“There<u>  54 </u><u>  </u> (be)many more things China should be proud of. I believe China must be much<u>  55   </u>(good) than other countries.”
**V.****书面表达（****15****分）**
英国某中学邀请你校学生代表团于7月中旬去访问交流，假如你是成员之一请在欢迎会上致答谢辞.
要点： 1.感谢邀请和接待；
2.希望在文化习俗，创新与发明方面有交流；
3.重点介绍一个中国传统节日；
4.邀请他们来深圳。
提示词：习俗custom 		创新innovation 	接待reception
要求： 1. 80个词左右，开头和结尾已给出，不计入总词数内；
2.必须包括以上全部要点，可以适当发挥；
3.文中不得出现真实姓名和校名；
4条理清楚，语句通顺，意义连贯，书写规范。
Ladies and gentlemen:
Good evening! It’s really a great honor for me to speak here. __________________
_____________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________
That’s all. Thank you.
