<div align="center">

深圳市 2019 年初中毕业生学业考试

</div>
<div align="center">

**英**** ****语**** ****试**** ****卷**

</div>
<div align="center">

第一部分 选择题 （60 分）

</div>
I. 词汇测试（15 分）
i. 从下面每小题的 A、B、C 三个选项中选出可以替换划线部分的最佳选项，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共 8 小题，每小题 1 分）
 1. --- Where shall we watch the light show tonight?
--- On the top of Lianhua Mountain. It’s in the <u>centre</u> of our city.
A. back	B. middle	C. front
2. --- Sarah seems to be confident about her performance tomorrow.
--- So she is. She’s gotten <u>prepared</u> for it.
A. sorry	B. famous	C. ready
3. --- I heard that your grandma lost her way in Dameisha yesterday.
--- Yes. Luckily, a kind stranger managed to <u>lead</u> her back home.
A. take	B. pull	C. put
4. --- When can we finish making the model car? We must hand it in this afternoon.
--- Very soon. There is one more<u> step</u> to finish it.
A. stair	B. post	C. stage
5. --- I’m not sure if I copied the address <u>correctly</u>. Can you check it for me?
--- No problem. Let’s check it together.
A. without difficulty	B. without instruction C. without mistakes
6. --- How was your skating lesson last week?
--- Not bad. Although I fell over many times, I managed to skate <u>at last</u>.
A. in the end    B. at present	C. at times
7. --- How many Chinese poems did you<u> learn by heart</u> last term?
--- Twenty, most of them were written in Tang Dynasty.
A. study	B. remember	C. research
8. --- Don’t <u>lie around.</u> Help me with some dishes, Jimmy.
--- OK. Mum. I’m coming in a minute.
A. look around	B. turn around	C. sit around
ii.根据句子意思，从下面每小题的 A、B、C 三个选项中选出最恰当的词语完成句子， 并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共 7 小题，每小题 1 分）
 9. --- Miss Huang always advises us to practice speaking English after class.
--- She is right. Speaking is an important language<u> </u><u>	</u><u>    </u><u>.</u>
A. sign	  B. skill	C. suggestion
10. --- We will have a big basketball game next week, but we still need a player.
--- Why don’t you <u>	</u>Bryan to join the game? He is fantastic.
A. invite	B. teach	C. warn
11. --- I like country music. It’s really exciting. What about you?
--- I prefer electronic music. It’s becoming more and more<u> </u><u>    </u><u>	</u>.
A. popular	B. comfortable	C. boring
12. --- Alan, your hair is so long. Why don’t you go and have a haircut?
--- I’m too busy to go today, but thanks for your advice <u>	</u>.
A. anytime	B. anywhere	C. anyway
13. --- Mark has had too much fried food. I’m really<u> </u><u>	</u><u>   </u>him.
--- Me, too. I think he should have more vegetables and fruits.
A. afraid of	B. worried about	C. unaware of
14. --- Today, mobile payment is very convenient. Almost everyone is using it.
--- That’s true. We don’t even need to <u>	</u>money from the bank.
A. take out	B. take off	C. take up
15. --- I am really nervous about the talent show tonight. It’s my first time on show.
---<u> </u><u>	</u>! You can make it. We will all support you.
A. Of course	B. Come on	C. Thank goodness
II. 完形填空（15 分）
阅读下面短文，从短文后所给的 A、B、C 三个选项中选出能填入相应空白处的最佳选项，并在答题卡上将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共 10 小题，每小题 1.5 分）
Nowadays, lots of foreigners are learning Chinese. Like many of them, I <u>16 </u><u> </u>knew two words of Chinese (“Ni Hao” and “Xie Xie”) when I first came to Beijing, China in 2009. As you can guess, my life was <u> 17 </u> for a while after I arrived. Simple tasks like ordering food or taking a taxi were quite stressful.
I knew I had to learn more Chinese, so I  <u>  18   </u> a Chinese class. My teacher   was <u>  19  </u> , although  I didn’t learn  enough to  have  a  real  conversation. Later I   studied on my own as well, but my progress was still slow. And I decided to<u> 20 .</u>
Around this time, I started playing in a band with a Chinese man who became one of my best friends in Beijing. He taught me a lot of  <u>   21   </u> about music, such as “melody”. He learned a lot of  English  from  me  in  return,  so  it  was  a  good  way  to <u> 22 </u><u>  </u>language and culture.
I have learned enough Chinese to <u>   23  </u>   many problems like booking train     tickets.  These  days.  there  are  more  foreigners  who  are  studying  Chinese.  I  can <u> </u><u> 24    </u>why it’s an amazing language. Finally, I found that the best way to learn a <u> </u><u> 25</u><u> </u>  is to make friends with native speakers and spend time with them.
16. A. usually	B. only   	C. hardly
17. A. easy	B. interesting	C. difficult
18. A. missed	B. attended	C. taught
19. A. helpful	B. cheerful	C. thankful
20. A. make up   B. put up              C. give up
21. A. words	B. names	C. jokes
22. A. change	B. imagine	C. exchange
 23. A. deal with	B. look for	C. think of
24. A. hope	B. realize	C. doubt
25. A. language	B. subject	C. task
III. 阅读理解（30 分）
阅读下面短文，从下面每小题的 A、B、C、D 四个选项中选出最佳选项，并在答题卡将相应的字母编号涂黑。（共 20 小题，每小题 1.5 分）
<div align="center">

A

</div>
Sending packets, shopping for everyday goods and even building a house, these are new skills that new robots show at the World Robot Exhibition.
| RoBohoN | Scientists are recommending the latest talking robots. They can be highly intelligent in their responses. RoBohoN, just 10cm tall, makes a lively description of the Great Wall and the Palace Museum. It can speak Chinese, English or any other language you like. |
| --- | --- |
| Human Support | This robot stands at 1m tall and looks like a container with arms. It provides much support to different places and keeps in touch with the outside world through the internet. |
| CarriRo | CarriRo, in the shape of a toy bus, has friendly “eyes” on its front. It works as a postman and sends packages by rolling around the streets. It has a GPS to travel. The person who receives the package is sent a code to the smart phone to open the CarriRo and get the package. |

26. How tall is the RoBohoN?
A. 0.1 meter	B. 1 meter	C. 1.8 meter	D. 101 meters
 27.Which Robot is the best helper to the old people’s homes?
A. RoBohoN	B. Human Support Robot
C.HRP-5P	D. CarriRo
28. How does the owner of the package open the CarriRo?
A. by working as a postman	B. by rolling around the street
C. by following the GPS	D. by using the code
29. In which part of a newspaper can we find this passage?
A. culture	B. sports	C. science	D. people
<div align="center">

B

</div>
Alice Lee is a high school student studying at a private school. She is doing some voluntary work at an after-school program to help students from poor families.
On the first day of her work, she noticed that many kids were lining up for free sandwiches and fruits. She was surprised. One of the organizers explains that many of these students don’t get enough to eat at home. So a school lunch or an after-meal might be the most food they would get all the day. She has also been told that some hungry kids can receive free lunches, but others are only allowed reduced-price meals, and those students’ families have to pay for the part of their food.
Lee was shocked, she decided to offer help to those who are suffering from hunger, “I want other kids to understand that If you see a problem, you don’t have to wait to be an adult to fix it,” says Lee. She and a group of friends are using their programme skill to create a new app called Food of Thought, which will allow parents, students, and even kind-hearted strangers to donate money to lunch accounts for students in a nearby school.
30. What did Alice Lee see on the first day of her voluntary work?
A. Children lining up for free food.
B. Children buying sandwiches and fruit.
C. Children learning cooking instructions.
D. Children doing voluntary work.
31. Who should pay for the half-priced food?
A. all the hungry children	B. kind-hearted strangers
C. some poor families	D. primary school students
32. What was she doing to help the poor kids?
A. She taught them for free.	B. She opened a lunch account.
C. She developed an app to help them.	D. She offered free food.
33. What is the main idea of this passage?
A. A local school is providing free food for students.
B. A girl is helping poor kids out of hunger.
C. An app will be tested in a school this fall.
D. A group of good friends are working at a school.
<div align="center">

C

</div>
Commuting to and from work is a major source of stress in America and throughout the world, and . Yet one city has found a way to make its train journeys more bearable, while promoting literature at the same time.
On two train lines in Beijing, China, the subway cars have been turned into libraries. But they’re not your traditional libraries. Instead of hard copies of the books, the subway cars contain audiobooks, as part of a promotion for a Chinese audiobook app. The app has teamed up with the city of Beijing to promote literacy.
However, the cars are still beautifully decorated to look like real bookshelves. The walls, and even doors, of the cars feature artistic renderings of the available books’ covers. Passengers can still browse the books just like in any other library, and once they’ve made their selection, they can scan the QR code on the “cover” of their chosen book. The QR code leads to the audiobook app, where the passengers can listen to the audiobooks for free. And they still have access to the books even after leaving the train!
The app is called 得到, which translates to “Get.” Thanks to the subway cars’ makeover, the app gets attention, and the commuters discover new stories every time they take a ride. And we think they’re all the better for it . Listening to audiobooks really can make your commute more enjoyable—it’s one of .
If libraries with physical copies of books are more your thing, you can find plenty of those in China, too. In fact,
34.How do passengers usually feel about their journeys to and from work?
A. Comfortable.	B. Enjoyable.	C. Painful.	D. Cheerful.
35. Which statement is TRUE about passengers in paragraph 3?
A. They read paper books on the train.
B. They can browse the QR code to buy the books.
C. They can scan the QR code to buy the books.
D. They can enjoy the book on the app after the ride.
36. What does “it” refer to in the paragraph 4?
A. The journey.	B. The app.
C. The passenger.	D. The underground.
37. Which is the best title for the passage?
A. The Best Train Ride.	B. The Enjoyable Journey.
C. The Future Library.	D. The Moving Library.
<div align="center">

D

</div>
UNNERS’ enthusiasm for the 2018 Shenzhen International Marathon was not diminished even though the sky was **overcast** yesterday morning, as 30,000 contestants from home and abroad gathered at the Civic Center square at 8 a.m. ready to hit the road.
The first runner to cross the finish line was Edwin Kipngetich Koech from Kenya, who finished the full-length marathon (42.195 kilometers) in 2 hours 9 minutes and 44 seconds. Koech took home a prize of US$20,000.
The runner-up prize went to an Ethiopian contestant, Bekele Muluneh Metaferia, who was only 56 seconds faster than the second runner-up, Samuel Ndungu Wanjiku, also from Kenya. Metaferia was awarded US$15,000, while Wanjiku received US$10,000.
The first woman to cross the finish line was Mulu Seboka Seyfu from Ethiopia. She finished in a time of 2 hours 27 minutes and 12 seconds, according to the organizer.
Kenyan runner Flomena Chepchirchir Chumba and Ethiopian runner Ashu Kasim Rabo finished in second and third place, respectively.
Evgeny Dekhtyar, a runner from Russia, said he really enjoyed the race and it was the second time that he had participated in the Shenzhen marathon. “The weather is superb for running a marathon because it is neither too cold nor too hot. Also, the views along Shennan Boulevard were beautiful. I really like the route,” said Dekhtyar.
Dekhtyar will also participate in the 2018 Shenzhen Bao’an International Marathon that is scheduled for Dec. 30. “I think a marathon is an amazing carnival in the city. People can exercise, have fun and break their personal records together,” he said.
Apart from the full-length marathon, the half-length marathon also attracted many participants to experience the fun of running. Some wanted to take the opportunity to improve their stamina and strength, while others wanted to enjoy themselves with friends and family.
38The underlined word “**overcast**”in paragraph 1,means____.
hot and  rainy    B.rainy and windy
C.cool and cloudy   D.warm and foggy
39. The woman who ran fastest is from___
A.Kenya B.Ethiopia  C.Russia D. China
40.According to Dekhtyar’s words ,we can know that_____
A.This was his second time to come to China .
B.The weather in Shenzhen was a little hot than that in Russia at that time.
C.He would take part in another Marathon in Shenzhen in 2018.
D.Everyone of the host city should be an athlete of the Marathon.
41.Which statement is true about this passage?
A. The best runners  of  this  marathon are Africans.
B. Evgeny Dekhtyar reached the finish line at about a quarter to ten.
C. Bekele Muluneh Metaferia finished the  marathon  in 2 hours 10 minutes and 40 seconds.
D.The full-length marathon is for the men runners ,while the half-length marathon is for the women ones.
<div align="center">

E

</div>
When Justin Tong was a child, other kids felt sorry for him. His parents always had him doing lots of housework such as carrying out the rubbish and sending newspapers. But when he grew up, he was better off than his childhood friends and lived a happier and healthier life.
This is the finding of a 40-year study that followed the lives of 456 children in London. It showed that the children who had worked hard in childhood had a richer and a happier future. “Children who worked in the home or community gained competence( 能 力 ) and came to feel they were worthwhile members of society,” said Daniel Brown, the psychologist( 心理学家) who made the discovery. “And because they felt good about themselves, others felt good about them.”
Brown’s study followed these children in great detail. Interviews were repeated at ages 25, 31 and 47. Under Brown, the researchers compared the children’s mental-health scores with their childhood-activity scores. Points were awarded for part-time jobs, housework, effort in school, and ability to deal with problems.
Working at any age is important. Childhood activities help a child develop responsibility, independence, confidence and competence — the underpinnings ( 基 础 ) of emotional health. They also help him understand that people must cooperate and work toward common goals. The most competent adults are those who know how to do this.
Yet work isn’t everything. As Tolstoy once said, “One can live magnificently in this world if one knows how to work and how to love, to work for the person one loves and to love one’s work.”
42. What do we know about Justin Tong?
A. He enjoyed a happy life.
B. He felt sorry for the other kids.
C. He always sold newspapers.
D. He seldom collected rubbish.
43. Who will probably succeed in the future according to Paragraph 2?
A. Children who enjoy happier and richer lives.
B. Children who work in the home or community.
C. Children who take part in Daniel Brown’s study.
D. Children who feel good about people around them.
44. How did Brown follow the children in his study?
A. By giving housework and praise.
B. By interviewing and giving scores.
C. By setting goals and showing love.
D. By solving problems and testing them.
45. What’s the purpose of the passage?
A. To talk about an interesting study.
B. To introduce Justin Tong’s success.
C. To tell us about childhood activities.
D. To encourage children to work hard.
<div align="center">

第二部分 非选择题 （25 分）

</div>
IV. 语法填空（10 分）
阅读下面短文，按照句子结构和上下午连贯要求，在空格处填入一个适当的词或使用括号中的词语的正确形式填空。（共 10 小题，每题 1 分）
Jason and Andy are twins. They share a lot of things, including room, food and toys.
One Saturday,  Jason and Andy went out 46. <u>	</u>(play) with a toy car. Both of them wanted to be the owner of the car, so they shouted at each other. 47. <u>	</u>(They) mother heard the boys arguing. She came out and told them to take turns to play with the toy car, but the twins wouldn’t.
A few days later, Mother brought 48<u>. </u><u>	</u>pet home. “Can’t we each have our own pet dog?” asked the boys. They were 49. <u>	</u><u>	</u>(tire) of sharing everything.
“No! The dog must 50. <u>	</u>(share).” Mother said. “You will have to feed the dog and make sure it does not get into anything wrong.”
Several days later, the dog got into mother’s room 51.<u> </u><u>	</u>(secret) and made a mess there. Jason saw the dog playing with mother’s clothes. He quickly went to find Andy and told him 52<u>. </u><u>	</u>the dog had done.
“Oh, no! It’s our duty to clean up the mess!” 53. <u>	</u>(cry) Andy. They boys picked up the clothes and put them away rapidly.
“Just think, Jason,” said Andy, “what a big mess two 54.<u> </u><u>	</u><u>  </u>(dog) would made!” “I agree 55.<u> </u><u>	</u>you,” laughed Jason, “Maybe sharing isn’t so bad!”
V. 书面表达（15 分）
假设你是李华，你的英国朋友 Tony 对“中国红”一词很感兴趣，想了解“中国红”在中国人日常生活中的体现，请你根据以下表格信息写一封回信帮助他了解。
| <div align="center">  地位  </div> | <div align="center">  最受欢迎的颜色之一  </div> |
| --- | --- |
| <div align="center">  代表  </div> | <div align="center">  幸福，可以带来好运  </div> |
| <div align="center">  使用场所  </div> | <div align="center">  婚礼，春节等  </div> |
| <div align="center">  表达方式  </div> | <div align="center">  剪纸，中国结，红包，灯笼  </div> |

提示词：
婚礼 wedding，中国结 Chinese Knot，红包 red packet， 代表 stand for Dear Tony,
It’s great to receive your letter. I’m writing to tell you something about Chinese
red._________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
I truly hope my letter will help you understand better about Chinese red.
Yours,
Li Hua
<div align="center">

深圳市 2019 年初中毕业生学业考试

</div>
<div align="center">

英语试卷答案

</div>
选择题 （60 分
I.词汇测试（15 分）
1--5 BCACC  6--10 ABCBA  11--15  ACBAB
II.完形填空（15 分）
16--20 BCBAC  21--25 ACABA
III.阅读理解（30 分）
26--29 ABDC   30--33 ACCB   34--37 BDBD
38--41 CBCA   42--45 ABBD
第二部分 非选择题 （25 分）
IV.语法填空（10 分）
46.to play  47.Their  48.a  49.tired  50.be shared
51.secretly  52.what  53.cried  54.dogs  55.with
V. 书面表达（15 分）
Dear Tony,
It’s great to receive your letter. I’m writing to tell you something about Chinese red. Chinese red, considered as the symbolic color of China, is extremely popular with Chinese people. It usually represents happiness, and we believe that it can bring us good luck.
People in our country attach such great importance to Chinese red that they use many red objects in some important events. For instance, in a wedding, you can see that the bride is in a red wedding dress and the wedding room is decorated with red. What’s more, the houses are also filled with red paper cuts, lanterns and Chinese Knots during the Spring Festival. Children will get red pockets for best wishes as well. Obviously, Chinese red plays a significant role and enjoys the highest popularity in China.
I truly hope my letter will help you understand better about Chinese red.
Yours,
Li Hua
<div align="center">

深圳市 2019 年初中毕业生学业考试

</div>
<div align="center">

英语试卷解析

</div>
第一部分 选择题 （60 分）
I.词汇测试（15 分）
1.句意：---今晚我们去哪里看灯光秀？---莲花山顶，它在我们城市的中心。centre，名词， 意为“中央”；A 选项 back，意为“后面，后部”；B 选项middle，意为“中间，中部”； C 选项 front，意为“前面，正面”。故答案选 B。
2.句意：---莎拉似乎对她明天的表演很有信心。---是的。她已经准备好了。prepared，形容词，意为“事先准备好的”；A 选项 sorry，意为“抱歉的，遗憾的”；B 选项 famous， 意为“著名的”；C 选项 ready，意为“准备好的”。故答案选 C。
3.句意：---我听说你奶奶昨天在大梅沙迷路了。---是的，幸运的是，一个好心的陌生人成功将她带回家了。lead，动词，意为“带路，引路，引领”；A 选项 take，意为“带领”； B 选项 pull，意为“拉，扯，拽”；C 选项 put，意为“放，安置”。故答案选 A。
4.句意：---我们什么时候才能完模型车的制作呢？我们必须在今天下午交。---很快，还有一步就可以完成了。step，名词，意为“步骤，步伐”；A 选项stair，意为“楼梯”；B 选项 post，意为“岗位；邮件”；C 选项 stage，意为“阶段，步骤”。故答案选 C。
5.句意：---我不确定我是否正确地复制了地址。你能帮我检查一下么？---没问题。我们一起检查吧。correctly，副词，意为“正确地”；A 选项 without difficulty，意为“容易地，毫不费力地”；B 选项 without instruction，意为“没有指令”；C 选项 without mistakes，意为“没有错误”。故答案选 C。
6.句意：---你上周的滑冰课怎么样？---还好。虽然我摔倒了很多次，但最后还是会滑了。at last，意为“在最后，最终”；A 选项 in the end，意为“最后，最终”；B 选项 at present， 意为“现在”；C 选项 at times，意为“有时，偶尔”。故答案选 A。
7.句意：---上个学期你记住了多少首中国诗词？--- 二十首，其中大部分是唐诗。learn by heart，意为“记住，牢记”；A 选项 study，意为“学习”；B 选项 remember，意为“记住”；C 选项 research，意为“研究，调查”。故答案选 B。
8.句意：---不要闲着不做事。帮我洗碗吧。---好的，妈妈。我马上就来。lie around，意为“无所事事”；A 选项look around，意为“游览，到处察看”；B 选项 turn around 意为“转向反方向”；C 选项 sit around，意为“无所事事”，可知答案选 C。
9.句意：---黄老师总是建议我们在课后练习说英语。---她是对的，说是一项重要的语言技能。A 选项 sign，意为“迹象”；B 选项 skill，意为“技能”；C 选项 suggestion，意为“建议”。故答案选 B。
10.句意：---下周我们将有一场大型的篮球比赛，但是我们仍需要一名球员。---为什么不邀请布莱恩加入这场比赛呢？他非常棒！A 选项 invite，意为“邀请”；B 选项 teach，意为“教授”；C 选项 warn，意为“警告”。故答案选 A。
11.句意：---我喜欢乡村音乐。它令人兴奋。你呢？。---我更喜欢电子音乐。它现在越来越受欢迎了。A 选项 popular，意为“受欢迎的”；B 选项 comfortable，意为“舒适的”；C 选项 boring，意为“无聊的”。故答案选 A。
12.句意：---艾伦，你的头发太长了。你为什么不去剪头发呢？---今天我太忙了，不能去， 不过还是要谢谢你的建议。A 选项 anytime，意为“在任何时候”；B 选项 anywhere， 意为“在任何地方”；C 选项 anyway，意为“尽管如此，即使这样”。故答案选 C。
13.句意：---马克已经吃了太多油炸食品。我真的担心他。---我也是。我认为他应该吃更多蔬菜和水果。A 选项 afraid of，意为“害怕”；B 选项 worried about，意为“担心”；C 选项 unaware of，意为“没有意识到”。 故答案选B。
14.句意：---现在，移动支付非常便捷。几乎每个人都在使用移动支付。--- 是的。我们甚至不需要从银行取款。A 选项 take out，意为“取款”；B 选项 take off，意为“起飞；脱下”；C 选项 take up，意为“开始从事；占据”。 故答案选A。
15.句意：---我真的担心今晚的才艺展示。这是我第一次展示。---加油！你能够做到的。我们都支持你。A 选项 of course，意为“当然”；B 选项 Come on，表示鼓励；C 选项 Thank goodness，意为“谢天谢地”。故答案选 B。
II.完形填空（15 分）
16.考查上下文语境与副词词义辨析，句意为像许多人一样，我仅仅知道两个中文词汇。
only 意为“仅仅”。
17.考查形容词词义辨析，句意为你能猜到，在我到达之后很长一段时间内，我的生活过得都很艰难。“difficult”意为“困难的；艰难的”，故用 difficult。easy“简单的”，interesting意为“有趣的”。
18.考查动词词义辨析，句意为我知道我必须学习中文，因此我报了一个中文班。“attend” 意为“参加”。“miss”意为“失去；想念”，“teach”意为“教；教学”。
19.考查形容词词义辨析。句意为尽管我学的词汇还不足以支撑我与人真正的进行交流， 但是我的老师对我的帮助还是很大的。“helpful”意为“有帮助的”。“cheerful”意为 “振奋的”，“thankful”意为“感激的”。
20.考查上下文语境与动词词组词义辨析，根据上下文可知我自己学习中文进度很慢， 我决定放弃了。“give up” 意为“放弃”，“make up”意为“编造；弥补”，“put up”意为 “举起；支起；提高”。
21.考査上下文语境与名词词义辨析，从上文可知，作者交到一个玩音乐的朋友，他教了作者很多有关音乐的词汇，从下文“melody”（旋律）也可推断出是关于音乐的词汇。“words”意为“词汇”，“names”意为“名字”，“jokes”意为“玩笑”。
22.考查上下文语境与动词辨析，从上文可知，作者从他朋友那里学到了中文词汇，他也从作者学到了英文词汇，所以是一种语言文化的交流。“exchange”意为“交换，交流”； “change”意为“改变”，“imagine”意为“想象”。
23.考査上下文语境与动词词组词义辨析，句意为我学到了许多中文来解决问题，比如订火车票。“deal with”意为“处理”，“look for”意为“寻找”，“think of”意为“思考，想起，认为”。
24.考査上下文语境与动词词义辨析，从上文得知，通过作者的经历，作者逐渐意识到中文这门语言的魅力，故用 realize。
25.考查名词词义辨析，根据文意,我们学习一门语言最好的方式就是与本地人交朋友并多和他们接触。
III.阅读理解（30 分）
A篇
26.细节题；原文提到“RoBohoN, just 10cm tall”10 厘米，即 0.1 米，故答案为A。
27.推断题；题干关键词为“best helper to old people’s home.”CD 选项的机器人分别用于建筑工地 “HRP-5P 部分第 2 句 HRP-5P looks like a strong builder.”和街道邮递CarriRo 部分第 2 句“It works as a postman and send packages”，可排除；而 RoBohoN 的主要作用是使用不同语言讲解和介绍世界 “make a lively description”，可排除；Human Support Robot 可以在不同地方给人们提供帮助，并且可以和外界联系，“It provides much support to different places and keeps in touch with the outside world through the Internet.” 因此可以帮助在家的老年人，故答案为B。
28.细节题；由文章“The person who receives the package is sent a code to the smart phone to open the CarriRo and get the package”可知包裹的主人“The person who receives the package”会收到一个密码 “a code”来打开 CarriRo，取出包裹，故答案为 D。
29.推断题；文章在介绍四种不同的新款机器人，和科学技术有关，A.文化 B.运动 D.
人 故答案为C。
B篇
30.细节题；文章第二段第一句提到 “on the first day of her work, she noticed that many kids were lining up for free sandwiches and fruits” 她看到很多学生排队 “line up”领取免费的三明治和水果，故答案为A。
31.细节题；文章第二段最后一句 but 后面“but others are only allowed reduced-price meals and those students’ family have to pay for the part of their food.”提到一些学生可以获得免费食物，另一些则只能获得减价食品，而他们的家庭需要支付这些食品的部分价格， 故答案为C。
32.推断题；文章第三段第三行提到 “she and a group of friends are using their programme skill to create a new app…” 她和一群朋友利用他们的编程技能开发了一个新的 app。故答案为 C。
33.主旨题；文章第一段就总起全文主旨“doing some voluntary work at an after-school program to help students from poor families”，主要介绍 Alice Lee 是如何想到以及通过开发 app 的方式帮助贫穷的学生摆脱解饿。故答案为 B。
C篇
34 enjoyable惬意的，从全文理解地铁内可以浏览图书听电子书等
35.D本段最后一句 And they still have access to the books even after leaving the train!
喜欢的话，下地铁后还可以继续阅读。
36.上一句and the commuters discover new stories every time they take a ride.上班一族每次乘地铁都会发现新的故事 ，“all the better for ”因为反而...更好.这段话主要谈“得到”这个应用程序，通过上下文，判断这个APP让阅读材以新的方式呈现，而且不断更新。
37D移动图书馆，这是北京地铁深圳地铁等推广的利民惠民举措。B. The Enjoyable Journey.是干扰选项，不能概括全文意思。
D篇
38 题：C 猜词题，考察词义理解。从文章倒数第三段天气neither too hot nor cold 既不冷也不热判断
39 题：B 细节题，询问跑的最快的女生国籍。第四段The first woman to cross the finish line was Mulu Seboka Seyfu from Ethiopia
40 题：C 细节题，采访俄罗斯选手对于马拉松的看法。倒数第二段Dekhtyar will also participate in the 2018 Shenzhen Bao’an International Marathon that is scheduled for Dec. 30.他还要参加12月份的另一个深圳举办的马拉松比赛。
41 题：A 推断题，通过文章能推断出什么。非洲选手马拉松非常出色。
E篇
41细节题：根据第一段最后一句话 “he was better off…and lived a happier and healthier life”,可知，答案选择 A。
42.细节题：根据第二段第二行和第三行 “children who had worked hard in childhood had a richer and a happier future,” 和 之 后 的 “Children who worked in the home or community competence … feel they were worthwhile”,可知答案选择 B。
43.细节题： 根据第三段第一行和第三行, “Interviews were repeated…” 和 “the researchers compared the children’s mental-health scores with…scores”,可知答案选择B。
44. 主旨题：主旨题一般在首尾找答案。根据第四段 “Working---at any age---is important. Childhood activities help a child develop responsibilities …of emotional health”以及文章最后一段,可知答案选择 D。通读全文可知，文章只是简单提及 A,B 和 C，若选择ABC，则以偏概全。
第二部分 非选择题 （25 分）
IV.语法填空（10 分）
46.to play  47.Their  48.a  49.tired  50.be shared
51.secretly  52.what   53. cried   54.dogs  55.with
V.书面表达
Dear Tony,
It’s great to receive your letter. I’m writing to tell you something about Chinese red. Chinese red, considered as the symbolic color of China, is extremely popular with Chinese people. It usually represents happiness, and we believe that it can bring us good luck.
People in our country attach such great importance to Chinese red that they use many red objects in some important events. For instance, in a wedding, you can see that the bride is in a red wedding dress and the wedding room is decorated with red. What’s more, the houses are also filled with red paper cuts, lanterns and Chinese Knots during the Spring Festival. Children will get red pockets for best wishes as well. Obviously, Chinese red plays a significant role and enjoys the highest popularity in China.
I truly hope my letter will help you understand better about Chinese red.
Yours,
Li Hua
