<div align="center">

**广东省深圳市2020年中考英语试卷**

</div>
**一、从下面每小题的A、B、C三个选项中选出可以替换划线部分的最佳选项。（每小题1分）**
1．（2020·深圳）—Tom, let's go to play basketball.
—I'd love to. But I have to <u>complete</u> my homework first.
A．check	B．finish	C．correct
2．（2020·深圳）—Your English teacher is very <u>humorous</u>.
—Exactly. She is very popular with us.
A．friendly	B．outgoing	C．funny
3．（2020·深圳）—You are always there for me when I am <u>in trouble</u>.
—That's what a friend should do.
A．in fear	B．in difficulty	C．in surprise
4．（2020·深圳）—Bi Sheng, an ancient Chinese, <u>invented</u> movable type printing in the 10405.
—It was developed in China but served the world.
A．created	B．discovered	C．searched
5．（2020·深圳）一It took me <u>nearly</u> two days to make the vlog.
— can't wait to watch it.
A．hardly	B．probably	C．almost
6．（2020·深圳）—Sam, could you tell me something about Earth Hour?
—Sure. People usually <u>turn off</u> lights and keep them off for an hour.
A．switch off	B．take off	C．get off
7．（2020·深圳）—What do you think of the Hi—tech Fair in Shenzhen Bay?
—You can't miss it! The show room <u>is full of</u> different models.
A．is fled with	B．is made of	C．is covered with
8．（2020·深圳）—Most Chinese <u>customers</u> prefer to pay by Alipay or WeChat pay nowadays.
—That's true. Life becomes more convenient in China because of them.
A．waiters	B．buyers	C．businessmen
**二、根据句子意思，从下面每小题的A、B、C三个选项中选出最佳选项。（每小题1分）**
9．（2020·深圳）—Do you mind _______ the opening time of Shenzhen Library?
— No problem! I'll check it on its website right now.
A．looking after	B．looking up	C．looking like
10．（2020·深圳）—Cindy, I have bought a lot of fruits for you.
—Wonderful! Let's put them into the fridge to keep them _____.
A．clean	B．fresh	C．fit
11．（2020·深圳）—Whenever I nod to Jenny, she _____ my greeting with a big smile.
— She is always so cheerful.
A．replies to	B．points to	C．laughs at
12．（2020·深圳）—Hey, Alicia! Have you got used to Chinese food?
— Yes! But I am still learning to use _____ as a Chinese does.
A．forks	B．chopsticks	C．knives
13．（2020·深圳）—Have you reminded your father about grandmother's birthday party?
—Yes, I've left him a(an) _____.
A．magazine	B．article	C．message
14．（2020·深圳）—To lose weight, I have to be on a diet.
—You'd better not _____, you should take exercise.
A．Instead	B．However	C．Therefore
15．（2020·深圳）—I feel bad about all the mess.
— _____! I will clean it up later.
A．Have fun	B．Good luck	C．Don't worry
**三、完形填空(共10小题，每小题1.5分，共15分)**
16．（2020·深圳）阅读下面短文，从短文后各题所给的A、B、C三个选项中，选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项。
    A group of boys stood around a tree. "What a tall tree!" they said to each other, "It would be<u>   （1）   </u>to climb to the top!”
    The group of boys then decided to play a game to<u>   （2）   </u> who could climb to the top of the tree first. Their mothers were sitting not far away, looking on at their<u>   （3）   </u>as they played.
    One of the climbers was an 8-year-old boy named David. He was the shortest child in the group<u>   （4）   </u>thought he would win.
    Then the game started. All of the boys tried their best to climb as high as they could. Although the other boys climbed faster than David in the beginning, he<u>   （5）   </u> the top of the tree fastest in the end.
    His mother was<u>   （6）   </u> She asked him, "David, how did you reach the top of the tree so<u>   （7）   </u>?"
    It was easy, "David said, The other children. <u>   （8）   </u> looking down as they climbed. When they realized how high they were, they were afraid of<u>   （9）   </u>I, however, looked only up. When I saw how close I was, I kept going higher and higher<u>   （10）   </u>I reached the top."
    It is true in life that if we just keep going forward without looking back, we are more likely to reach our goals.
（1）A．boring	B．exciting	C．dangerous
（2）A．believe	B．think	C．see
（3）A．students	B．children	C．teachers
（4）A．Nobody	B．Somebody	C．Everybody
（5）A．got up	B．got on	C．got to
（6）A．proud	B．worried	C．frightened
（7）A．carefully	B．quickly	C．quietly
（8）A．kept	B．avoided	C．practiced
（9）A．taking down	B．falling down	C．calming down
（10）A．if	B．after	C．until
**四、阅读理解。(共20小题，每小题1.5分，共30分)**
17．（2020·深圳）阅读理解
    Good news for art lovers! We have collected some information about the exhibitions put on in Shenzhen this summer.
| **Frank Yang's   Artworks** An exhibition showing late master Frank Yang's   old photos, letters, videos and landscape paintings is being held. Entry is   free. **Dates**: Until July 26. **Venue**: Guan Shanyue Art Museum, 6026 Hongli Road, Futian   District. **Metro**: Line 3 or 4. to Children's Palace Station, Exit B. | **Contemporary Art** Chinese artists Wang Dawei and Li Xiao are   holding their exhibitions, featuring contemporary sound art and video art.   Entry is free. **Dates**: Until August 18. **Venue**: OCAT Shenzhen, South Area, OCT-LOFT, Nanshan District. **Metro**: Line 1 to Qiaocheng East Station, Exit A. |
| --- | --- |
| **Cassie Chen's Photos** Cassie Chen, a graduate of Tsinghua University, is exhibiting her photographic Works in   Shenzhen. Visitors can find photos on different themes. Entry is free. **Dates**: Until July 30. **Venue**: TC101 Exhibition Hall, 2001 Longxiang Boulevard, Longgang District. Metro: Line 3 to Universiade. Station, ExitC. | **Future Art** Chinese artist Sun Fangping is exhibiting   his works. Organizers hope that this series of exhibitions will explore the   direction and value of the future of art. **Dates**: Until August 31. **Venue**: Zhi Art Museum, Song' an Road Bao' an District. **Metro**: Ling 11 to Houting Station, Exit A and then take a   taxi. |

（1）Which line can you take to enjoy Cassie Chen's Photos?
A．Line 11.	B．Line 4.	C．Line3.	D．Line 1.
（2）In which district can you visit Future Art?
A．Nanshan District	B．Futian District
C．Longgang District	D．Bao'an District
（3）Which exhibitions can you choose if you are free on August 15?
A．Contemporary Art and Future Art
B．Cassie Chen's Photos and Future Art.
C．Contemporary Art and Frank Yang's Artworks
D．Frank Yang's Artworks and Cassie Chen's Photos
（4）Where is the text probably taken from?
A．A novel	B．A story book
C．A newspaper	D．A science magazine
18．（2020·深圳）阅读理解
    "Miss Smith! What rough (粗糙的) hands Mary Jessup has! "said Daisy Marvin, as she walked home from school with her teacher.
    "In my opinion, Daisy, Mary's hands are the prettiest in our class"
    "Why? Miss Smith, they are as red and hard as they can be. How they would look if she tried to play on a piano! "Daisy said.
    Miss Smith took Daisy's hands in hers, and said, "Your hands are very soft and white, just the hands to look beautiful on a piano; yet they don't have one beauty that Mary's hands do .Shall I tell you what the difference is?”
    "Yes, please, Miss Smith." Daisy looked at Miss Smith, with eyes wide open.
    "Will, Daisy, Mary's hands are very busy. They wash dishes; they make fires; they hang out clothes, and help to wash them, too; they are always trying to help her poor, hard-working mother."
    Miss Smith continued, "Besides, they wash and dress the children; they mend their toys and dress their dolls; yet, they find time to bathe the head of the little girl who is so sick in the next house to theirs."
    "They do good deeds (行为) to every living thing. I have seen them patting the tired horse and the homeless dog in the street. They are always ready to help those who need help."
    "I shall never think Mary's hands are ugly any more, Miss Smith." Daisy said that with tears in eyes.
    "I am glad to hear you say that, Daisy; and I must tell you that they are beautiful because they help others gladly and cheerfully."
    "Oh, Miss Smith! I feel so ashamed of myself and so sorry, "said Daisy, looking into her teacher's face with shining eyes.
    “My dear, beauty doesn't lie in how one looks but what he does."
（1）What did Daisy think of Mary's hand at first?
A．Warm	B．Ugly	C．Dirty	D．Soft
（2）What is beauty in Miss Smith's opinion?
A．Being patient.	B．Being good-looking.
C．Being helpful.	D．Being hard-working.
（3）What can we infer (推断) from the passage?
A．Mary's mother was lazy.	B．Mary lived a comfortable life.
C．Miss Smith disliked Daisy,	D．Daisy understood beauty better.
（4）What is the best title for the passage?
A．Busy Days	B．Cheerful Tears
C．Shining Eyes	D．Beautiful Hands
19．（2020·深圳）阅读理解
    When Chinese people talk about Chinese tea culture today, they won't miss an important person in Chinese history-Lu Yu, respected as a "Sage of Tea (茶圣)" for his achievements in the Chinese tea culture. He is best-known for The Classic of Tea, the first work on growing, making and drinking tea.
    Lu was born in Jingling in 733 A.D.As a child, he became a student of Zou Fuzi. Thanks to his teacher's <u>guidance</u>, he learnt a lot. He often made tea for his teacher. He also took care of his fellow students' health using his knowledge on tea and herbs (草药) .
    Lu Yu often went to the countryside to gather tea leaves and herbs. On one of those trips, Lu Yu found a spring. The water was quite clear and clean. When Lu made tea with this spring water, he found the tea tasted better than usual. From then on, he realized the importance of water quality in making tea.
    In 752 A.D, Lu Yu finished his studies and returned to Jingling, where he met Cui Guofu. Both men shared the same interests in tea, literature (文学) and poetry. They soon became good friends. Since then, the two spent much time travelling, drinking tea and writing poems together.
    This period was important to Lu Yu as a man of literature. Culi, with his rich experience and skills in writing, became a coach of Lu. He provided necessary help with Lu's writing. It was during this time that Lu finally wrote the amazing work, The Classic of Tea.
（1）What is Lu famous for?
A．Having wisdom.	B．Respecting teachers.
C．Caring for friends.	D．Influencing tea culture.
（2）What does the underlined word "<u>guidance</u>" in Paragraph 2 probably mean?
A．Help	B．Stress	C．Protection	D．Control
（3）Why did Lu and Cui become good friends?
A．They had the same hobbies.	B．They lived in the same place.
C．They spent much time together.	D．They had the same experiences.
（4）Which of the following is the correct order according to the passage?
①Lu Yu wrote The Classic of Tea.
②Lu Yu became a student of Zou Fuzi.
③Lu Yu made friends with Cui Guofu.
④Lu Yu found water quality was important.
A．②③①④	B．②④③①	C．④①③②	D．@②③①
20．（2020·深圳）阅读理解
    Teens and kids are reading a lot less for fun, according to a recent report.
    Although the decline (下降) in the past ten years is very surprising for teen readers, some data (数据) in the report shows that reading is still a big part of many children's lives.
    According to the report, the number or teens who hardly read has gone up from 8 percent to 25 percent today. The report data shows that kids' reading ability remains almost the same. However, the amount of reading time has fallen, from about an hour every day to half an hour.
    As for children's e-reading, the report mentions little about its effects. But it says that many parents choose to control the time spent on e-books, mainly because they are worried about the increased screen time. After all, it is important to protect their kids' eyes.
    The most helpful part in the report is parents' effects on their children. It shows that parents are examples and important guides for them in reading. If parents read more and find more time如o read with their children, it turns out that their children actually read more often.
    As summer vacation arrives, parents might take this chance to step in, make a reading list and enjoy the pleasant family reading time.
（1）What do we know about children's fun reading time?
A．It is much shorter.	B．It stays the same.
C．It is much longer.	D．It changes a little.
（2）Why do many parents control e-reading?
A．It can waste kids' time.	B．E-books are not so important.
C．It can harm kids' health.	D．E-books are a waste of money.
（3）How should parents encourage children's reading?
A．By making reading plans.	B．By setting good examples.
C．By praising kids' reading.	D．By offering different books.
（4）What's the writing purpose of the last paragraph?
A．To prevent e-reading.	B．To encourage family reading.
C．To advise family trips.	D．To describe vacation pleasure.
21．（2020·深圳）阅读理解
    The Taojinshan Greenway (绿道) in Shenzhen has been open to citizens since July, 2019. Sitting at the west side of Shenzhen Reservoir, it is as long as 7.07 kilometers.
    With plants along both sides and lakes lying at different sites, tourists can enjoy wonderful scenery all the way. If they are tired, they are free to take a rest at the 3 stops that were built for breaks. Additionally, five unused guard posts (岗享) along the old route have remained. They serve as sightseeing platforms for visitors to feel the cultural spirit behind the place.
    Of all its 13 scenic spots, 8 were designed to have Al helpers. From them, visitors can gain information on parking, tour guide services and more. The smart greenway, with free Wi-Fi available, also provides environmental date, such as temperature, wind speed and air quality. What's more, it can give visitors wamings of coming extreme (极端的) weather and natural disasters, including rainstorms and typhoons that may hit Shenzhen.
    "Started in the middle of 2015, the building process of the Taojinshan Greenway has taken good care of de wildlife and environment nearby" said Yang Shiming, an offcial in charge of the project."
    The greenway is an example of construction projects without doing harm to the nature. It also shows the role that technology plays in building a smart greenway for more life convenience."
（1）How long did it take to finish the Taojinshan Greenway?
A．About 3 years	B．About4 years.
C．About 5 years	D．About 6 years.
（2）What does the underlined word "They" in Paragraph 2 refer to?
A．Views.	B．Visitors.	C．Stops.	D．Guard posts.
（3）What is the main idea of Paragraph 3?
A．What Al helpers do.	B．Technology changes life,
C．How Al helpers work.	D．Technology protects humans.
（4）What can we learn from this passage?
A．It is interesting to use Al helpers.
B．It is important to build greenways.
C．It is possible to balance nature and construction.
D．It is unnecessary to worry about terrible weather.
**五、语法填空(共10小题，每小题1分，共10分)**
22．（2020·深圳）阅读下面短文，在空白处填入一个适当的单词或括号内单词的正确形式。
    One day, a man was walking by the corner of a street. Here he met.<u>　     　</u> little boy holding a bird cage and selling the birds inside. He<u>　        　</u>(stop) and looked very sadly at the birds without freedom in front of him. The birds were screaming in the cage, trying to fly away.
    After standing<u>　     　</u>a moment, he said to the boy," How much does<u>　     　</u> (you) bird cost? I want.
    "One fifty cents, sir," the boy answered quickly.
    "I am afraid that you are mistaken. I am not asking how much it is. "The man said, "I would like<u>　     　</u>(buy) all of them. What I ask is how much you want for them."
    Hearing this, the boy<u>　        　</u>(happy) counted the number of the birds in the cage.
    "They cost five dollars."
"Here<u>　     　</u>(be) the money! "The man passed the money. The boy counted excitedly. However, he then was<u>　          　</u>(surprise) to find all the birds had flown away.
    "OH, my god, for what reason did you do that, sir? You don't even get a bird!" The boy asked the man who set the birds free.
    "My boy, let me tell you<u>　     　</u>I did this." The man said, "I have no right to get them. Every life should be free and they are our<u>　        　</u>(friend).So we should give them freedom."
**六、书面表达(共15分)**
23．（2020·深圳）深圳市正在争创全国文明城市。假定你是鹏城中学学生会主席，希望同学们为“创文”做出自己的贡献。
请你按照所提示的要点，代表学生会写一篇倡议书。
| 环境保护 | ①垃圾分类；②绿色出行 |
| --- | --- |
| 公益慈善 | ①志愿服务；...... |
| 人际交往 | ①诚信友善；②.... |

要求:
1）词数80左右(开头和结尾已经给出，不计入总词数)；
2）要点齐全，可适当发挥；
3）条理清晰，语句通顺，意义连贯，书写规范；
4）文中不得出现真实姓名和校名。
参考词汇：分类sort out志愿 者volunteer贡献contribution
Dear friends,
    As we know, Shenzhen is working hard to win the title of China's National Civilized City.
    All in all, Shenzhen is our home. It's time to take action.
The Student Union
July 20, 2020
