## **2024年广东省深圳市中考英语试卷**
**一、完形填空**
1．    William grew up in a poor family in Africa.His family lived in a village with no（1）<u>　   　</u>.At night，they used oil lamps for light.However，oil was too expensive for his parents to afford.
William wanted to （2）<u>　   　</u> life there but he had no idea how to realize it.One day，he read a book on how to turn wind into electricity with a windmill.
"That is （3）<u>　   　</u>!"Though he didn't know what a windmill was，he decided to give it a try.
First he had to （4）<u>　   　</u> all the materials.He dug through the rubbish with his cousin in the villages nearby and （5）<u>　   　</u> his goal until he got what he wanted.
Then he started to make the windmill.The moment his farm work finished in the fields，he threw himself on studying the materials，staying （6）<u>　   　</u> till midnight.Finally，he made it after many （7）<u>　   　</u>.He fixed the windmill on the top of a wood tower to catch wind.The villagers came to look.A long wire was used to connect to a bulb to the windmill.The wind blew and the windmill （8）<u>　   　</u>.To their amazement，the bulb lit up.The villagers cheered.William threw his hands in the air and jumped（9）<u>　   　</u>.To produce more energy，he built another windmill for his village.
Bored into poverty，William didn't give up in the face of difficulties.He kept reading，taught himself and lit up the whole （10）<u>　   　</u>.
| （1） | A.gas | B.water | C.Internet | D.electricity |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| （2） | A.protect | B.improve | C.create | D.understand |
| （3） | A.amazing | B.surprised | C.worried | D.important |
| （4） | A.buy | B.invent | C.collect | D.borrow |
| （5） | A.stuck to | B.went over | C.looked into | D.learn about |
| （6） | A.calm | B.awake | C.relaxed | D.free |
| （7） | A.tells | B.excuses | C.failures | D.meeting |
| （8） | A.fell | B.flew | C.opened | D.turned |
| （9） | A.excitedly | B.hurriedly | C.carefully | D.worriedly |
| （10） | A.team | B.club | C.school | D.village |

**二、阅读理解**
2．    When he was a teenager，Hunter Adams was very unhappy and he spent many years in a special hospital for people with mental（精神的） health problems.
When he left the hospital，Adams decided to become a doctor，so he went to a medical school in Virginia，the USA.But when he was there，he did things in a different way.For example，he didn't like the doctors' white coats，so he wore shirts with flowers on them when he visited his patients and he tried to make them laugh.The doctors at the medical school didn't like Adams because he was too different.
But Adams believed that people in hospital need more than medicine.He saw unhappy and lonely people，and he tried to help them.He spent a lot of time with children in hospital and often dressed up like a clown to make the children laugh.When he finished medical school and became a doctor，Adams opened his own hospital，called "The Gesundheit Institute"，together with some other doctors.They wanted it to be a place with a different way of working with sick people.
Hunter Adams became famous during the 1980s，and in 1998，Universal Pictures made a film about his life.It was very successful.In the film （called Patch Adams），Robin Williams played Adams.Williams said，"Adams is a really warm person，who believes that patients need a doctor who is a friend.I enjoyed playing him."
（1）When did Adams have mental health problems？ <u>　   　</u>
A.After he left medical school.
B.During the 1980s.
C.When he was a teenage boy.
D.After the film came out.
（2）Why did the doctors at the medical school dislike Adams？ <u>　   　</u>
A.Because he was a warm person.
B.Because he had mental health problems.
C.Because he was a clown.
D.Because he wasn't the same as others.
（3）The Gesundheit Institute  <u>　   　</u>.
A.was a hospital
B.belonged to Universal Pictures
C.could make films
D.was a medical school
（4）According to the passage，which statement is NOT true？ <u>　   　</u>
A.Adams wore shirts instead of white uniforms when visiting patients.
B.Robin Williams believed that patients need a doctor who is a friend.
C.In Adams' opinion，not only medicine was needed for patients.
D.Robin Williams was an actor.
（5）The passage mainly tells us about  <u>　   　</u>.
A.how to cheer up patients
B.people with mental health problems
C.a film about Adams
D.a doctor named Hunter Adams
3．    After a 10﹣year project to count tuna and other large fish in the world's oceans，scientists have made a very surprising discovery ：these fish are almost gone.Because of too much fishing，almost 90 percent of the worldwide population of large fish—the ones we usually eat—has disappeared.If we don't act，these animals will totally disappear.That will influence every animal in the ocean.
The <u>demand</u> for fish is growing.Almost a billion people around the world get their protein（蛋白质） mostly from fish.Doctors praise seafood for being low in fat.But what seems like a healthy choice for humans is causing a disaster to our oceans."People are consuming（消费） too much，"says Lance Morgan，a scientist at the Marine Conservation Biology Institute.
A dish of tuna in restaurants costs more than just one animal's life.When fish like tuna disappear from the ecosystem（生态系统），the ocean's food chain（链） breaks down.Animals such as sharks，which normally eat tuna，may die because they find no food.
The news may be scary，but taking action from now on can prevent harm that hasn't happened yet.World organizations are ordering countries to stop fishing too much.The Monterey Bay Aquarium gives seafood choices to anyone hoping to keep healthy without destroying the environment.
"If you care about wildlife，first spend time and think about your own values and beliefs，" says Morgan."Then decide what you're going to eat."
（1）How does the writer start the text？ <u>　   　</u>
A.By giving a fact.
B.By asking a question.
C.By telling a story.
D.By using a saying.
（2）What does the underlined word"<u>demand</u>" in Paragraph 2 probably mean？ <u>　   　</u>
A.Wish.
B.Support.
C.Need.
D.Price.
（3）From Paragraph 3，we know that  <u>　   　</u>
A.if sharks die out，tuna will die out soon
B.tuna will be more popular in restaurants
C.tuna plays an important role in the ecosystem
D.tuna disappeared because they found no food
（4）What's the purpose of the text？ <u>　   　</u>
A.To tell people to stop polluting our oceans.
B.To tell people to protect wildlife in oceans.
C.To tell people to avoid eating too much seafood.
D.To tell people to live a balanced and healthy life.
（5）What does the last paragraph of the article explain  <u>　   　</u>
A.We need to care about wildlife
B.We need to eat wild animals
C.We need to reflect on our own values and beliefs
D.We don't want to protect wild animals
4．    A recent TV series To the Wonder has become China's breakout TV hit of the year.It has also won praise at a film festival abroad.To the Wonder is based on the award﹣winning novel of Li Juan，My Altay，and is directed by Teng Congcong.It is very poetic and filled with beautiful wisdom.
The TV drama follows the journey of Li Wenxiu.She once wished to leave Altay，an area in Northern Xinjiang.After failing to realize her dream in the capital of Xinjiang，Li has to move back to her hometown and tries to find a new direction for herself.At first，Li finds it hard to understand her neighbours' traditional way of thinking.Under the influence of her mother Zhang Fengxia，Li starts to see the place and its people in a new light.Later，she comes to understand their lifestyle and respect for nature.
Fans describe watching the drama as an experience in the wonderland."It's like breathing in fresh air or lying under the sun，"said one fan."It is a <u>unique</u> drama，very different from the usual Chinese series.A must﹣watch if you want to discover the beauty of the grassland and life there，" another fan said.
"People enjoy the wonderful view of Altay.But the key to the success of the series lies in its ability to connect with the viewers on a human level，"said Teng Congcong."In the drama，everyone communicates sincerely.Even if I disagree with you，I sincerely respect you.In fact，this is a very important part of human nature—the love for truth，goodness and beauty."
（1）To the Wonder is the name of  <u>　   　</u>.
A.a foreign drama
B.a famous film
C.a TV series
D.a beautiful poem
（2）Why does Li Wenxiu come back to Altay？ <u>　   　</u>
A.To look after her mother.
B.To find herself a new direction.
C.To help the local people.
D.To enjoy its beautiful view.
（3）The underlined word "unique" has the closest meaning to  <u>　   　</u>.
A.serious
B.common
C.special
D.strange
（4）What is the key to the success of To the Wonder according to Director Teng？ <u>　   　</u>
A.Its sincere respect for nature.
B.The beautiful wisdom of the writer.
C.The lifestyle of the local people.
D.Its sincere connection with viewers.
（5）What is the purpose of the text？ <u>　   　</u>
A.Everyone communicates sincerely.
B.Life requires believing in miracles.
C.A love for truth，goodness，and beauty.
D.Sincerely respect you.
**三、阅读还原**
5．    There are many humanistic monuments（人文古迹） and natural scenic spots（景点） in textbooks.Children are always interested in them，and they want to go there in person.（1）<u>　   　</u>This kind of tour allows parents and children to deepen their understanding of the scenes（场景） mentioned in the textbooks.
Many families have taken part in the textbook tour.（2）<u>　   　</u> They can understand the cultural background and experience the historical period in the textbooks.For example，in Fuzhou，parents and children can watch lively shows and visit the museums to leaned more about the famous writer Tang Xianzu in the Ming Dynasty.In addition，they can learn about the local customs.（3）<u>　   　</u>
The textbook tour is a connection between "reading thousands of books" and " travelling thousands of miles".（4）<u>　   　</u> Besides，the textbook tour further increases children's pride in the motherland.It also helps them learn about the excellent traditional culture of China.
The rise of the textbook tour is a great chance for the connection between culture and tourism.For example，the Wenchuan government holds some activities on the birthday of Dayu.（5）<u>　   　</u> This spreads local culture and provides an unforgettable experience for tourists.As the text hook tour becomes a new fashion，the government should offer warm services to achieve a win﹣win situation for both scenic spots and tourists.
A.This further makes their journey colorful.
B.That's why the textbook tour has become popular these days.
C.They follow the stories in the textbooks and choose places to travel.
D.Cultural workers teach "Dayu culture" to tourists in these activities.
E.Through the practice，children can have a deeper understanding of the textbooks.
F.Textbooks can broaden my horizons.
**四、信息匹配**
6．A.Use a note or a watch to remind yourself to be punctual.Write down how late you usually are，10 or 15 minutes？Then do things 10 or 15 minutes ahead of time.
B.No one can do two things well at the same time.You'd better change your way of studying and try to focus on one thing at a time.
C.Create to﹣do lists.At the beginning of the day，make a list of the tasks you must do.Write down the most important task at the top of the list.
D.By balancing study and rest，you can do more with less.Take a break after finishing a task.You can try listening to music or doing some exercise to relax.
E.When you start doing homework，ask your family to turn off the TV and let your family know that you need a quiet environment to study.
F.Joining a study group and having a study partner are good ways to avoid procrastination（拖延）.In study groups，students can remind each other to finish their homework on time.
（1）<u>　   　</u> Grace likes filling her day with study and all kinds of clubs，so her schedule is so full that she doesn't have enough rest time and often feels very tired.
（2）<u>　   　</u>Tina gets used to finishing tasks in the last second.For example，she knew there would be an exam in a month but she didn't prepare for it until last week.
（3）<u>　   　</u> Tim always spends much lime on unimportant things such as playing games.Therefore，he has less time for his hobbies.
（4）<u>　   　</u> Tom often does more than two tasks at the same time，because he thinks it can save time.But in fact，it usually takes him more time to finish his homework.
（5）<u>　   　</u> Alice is always unpunctual（不守时的），such as being late for a friend's birthday party or an important event.She doesn't know how to get rid of this bad habit.
**五、语法填空**
7．    Ole is a student from Norway at East China Normal School.He first visited China in2016，and since then，he （1）<u>　                　</u>（develop） a deep interest in traditional Chinese culture.Recently，he and his team won the Shanghai International Students Dragon Boat Race.It was the team's（2）<u>　        　</u>（six） win in a row and his second time winning the first prize."I （3）<u>　                 　</u>（introduce） to the dragon boat racing in the spring of 2023.My teacher noticed my strong arms and encouraged me（4）<u>　         　</u> （try） it"said Ole.When he was asked the secret of his success，he replied"there is no"I"，（5）<u>　      　</u> only "we".My teammates are international students coming （6）<u>　       　</u> different countries.Before we became the champions，we practiced rowing three times a week，trying to match the strokes with drumbeat.
At first，we weren't very good.We did not know （7）<u>　        　</u> the problem lay.However，with continuous effort，we learned that teamwork is the key.Although we are culturally different，we are one team in the race.'Before each race，the team would stand in （8）<u>　   　</u> circle and cheer loudly. "Taking part in this sport，we realized the（9）<u>　             　</u>（important） of cooperation.We trained hard，each stroke bringing us a closer to understanding the tradition of Dragon Boat Festival" said Ole（10）<u>　          　</u>（proud）.
**六、作文**
8．假如你是李华，你的作品在"the Beauty of Nature"主题摄影展上获得了一等奖。你的英语老师邀请你在"英语一分钟演讲"上给同学们做分享。要点如下：
（1）拍摄的时间，地点，内容；
（2）选择这张照片的原因；
（3）参赛感受。
Dear  _____，
_____________
That's all!Thank You!
